It was his first kiss, and he was terrified. Nayt puckered up and prepared for the magic that all the stories had promised. He was severely disappointed. There were no fireworks, no magic, and more slobber than he was prepared for. Also, she bit him a little. She seemed much more excited, though, and ended the kiss with a flush and an embarrassed giggle.

Jayna backed away shyly, then stood up straight and looked down at Nayt, waiting for a reaction.

"That was amazing," he said, wishing it were so. It seemed to be what she had been hoping for. She smiled. 

Clouds were forming in the picturesque blue sky, and it would have made a perfect memory with the trees from the town square framing her face. Instead, all he could think of was that it was going to be another hot day.

"I wanted you to go into your Testing with luck." She smiled demurely. She was very cute. Tall, strong, exciting, and a terrible kisser. 

Most girls didn’t want anything to do with him. He had no money, and had been told on numerous occasions that he was the ugly duckling. He had grown up hearing his numerous aunts and cousins telling him how sorry they were that he didn’t have the good looks of his parents or older brother. Even after what his brother had done, he still heard whispers of how good looking he had been.

Jayna seemed to like him for his brains, though. Before she had graduated, she always sat next to him in class, and was constantly amazed that he knew all the answers. She also laughed at most of his jokes. Even the dumb ones.

Nayt sighed, "I'm late for exercises. Saba Eetho will kill me!" 

Jayna looked shocked, then burst out crying. 

"I'm sorry," Nayt said, sighing. "Bad joke." She didn’t laugh at that one. 

He had dreaded this day ever since Leo was killed months ago. Everyone assured him that the Testing would go fine, but both his brother and his best friend had been killed because of the demons. Nayt had no illusions of safety, and he definitely shouldn’t be joking about it.

"Promise me, Nayt, that you won't worship the demons! I don’t want to lose you!" Jayna collapsed in on herself, and hugged him even tighter. Then she started hiccuping and crying even more.

"I promise. Now I've got to go." Nayt stood up on tippy toes and kissed her again. This second kiss was much nicer, warm and tender. He thought he could get used to kissing, until he felt her snot leak onto his lip. Uhg. It killed the mood. He turned towards the center of town.

"Bye," Nayt said over his shoulder and ran off toward the children's square, happy to get out of that awkward situation. It was three streets over, but he elbowed his way through the crowded noontime marketplace and snuck unnoticed into the back row. He joined his classmates stretching through their routine. He bent over and focused on his breathing exercises with everyone else.

A large hand fell on Nayt's shoulder. He looked down to see a metal ring. It must be one of the Sabaa, who were the only ones who had metal in town.

“Naytan, I see you are excited to face your demons and become a man." Nayt had made it just in time, and luckily Saba Eetho was the nicest of the Sabaa. He was the youngest of the Sabaa, and still something of a jokester. Nayt remembered when Eetho had graduated and done his own Testing long ago. It was one of the first Testings that Nayt had seen.

"Class, how about we have our favorite basket-maker show us how ready he is for tomorrow?"

Nayt looked at the twenty other young teenagers from the village who were scheduled for noontime exercises.

None of them had turned Fifteen, the age of the Testing. They stared back at him with pity in their eyes. Some had lighter or yellow skin color, with Fiona’s black skin being the darkest of the group. All of them looked sick with worry.

Everyone dreaded the Test. The Sabaa promised that only evil demon worshippers would fail, but he wasn’t so sure.

Someone was missing from class. Where was Peder?

He saw Fiona glancing at him, tears running down her dark cheeks. Every girl seemed to be crying today. Fiona had lost her brother Leo to the Test months ago. Since then, they had spent a lot of time together in the weavery where they worked. He gulped, remembering the ordeal that faced him tomorrow.

Nayt heard a murmur, and turned to see Saba Takkai approaching. There were four of the priests and Takkai was the oldest and wisest. The head priest. Saba Eetho was also a priest, but looked much younger in comparison to the older white-haired man.

All the students turned and bowed as the head priest approached to stand behind Nayt. Sitta Naani also stopped behind him, silent and brooding. The priestess was large and round, with severe hair and a scowling face. Saba Takkai was even bigger, with a protruding belly that hung over his metal belt. He frequently smiled, but never warmly. His small dull eyes seemed to hide behind his oversized nose.

The High Saba nodded, and Saba Eetho stood and gently pushed Nayt towards his boss. Eetho said, “Young Naytan was about to demonstrate the forms for Testing.”

Saba Takkai nodded again and Nayt began the first moves of the kata forms.

Saba Eetho held up his hand. The young priest looked like a kid, showing off for his elders. “Naytan, tell us the purpose of the forms.”

Nayt spoke, holding his body perfectly still. “It's called the Kata, and protects us from the green demons for one year until our next birthday.”

Saba Takkai asked. “And why only until your birthday?”

Nayt recited the phrases that he had been taught. “Birthdays are when we have the most emotion, and when we’re at our weakest. Demons try to take advantage of that weakness. We do the dance each year to renew our strength. But I’m stronger than that.” The last he added, even though he honestly didn’t feel that confident.

“And what happens if the demons take you?”

With a tremble in his voice Nayt said, “If the demons win, I will be taken to a place where the demons can tempt us no longer.” 

He wanted to say that they would be killed and burned like garbage, but knew that such back talk would be severely punished.

Saba Takkai nodded, and Nayt began the moves he had practiced for the past five years.

Nayt stood and raised both arms out into Sun Salute position. After two beats, he crossed his arms behind his neck in the gesture of Sad Mother. He spoke his name clearly, "Naytan Fabe.” 

Continuing the moves, he lowered his left arm fully extended to the left, making sure to keep the fingers straight and together and the palm pointed palm-outwards in the position called Dog Trainer. He held it for three beats, then waved his right hand in a circle three times, making sure to form Water Wheel as perfect and slow circles. The class chanted the customary prayers until the third circle, when they all shouted "Xan Sell!" and he echoed the magical word.

Nayt dropped his right hand to his side and punched out with his left in a firm Strike the Demon movement. Nayt followed with a final Sad Mother then bowed his head.

Everyone fell silent. Nayt fought the temptation to glance up to see Saba Takkai's reaction. He was shaking from the tension. How was he going to be able to conquer his fears for the real test?

The High Saba reached out to position Nayt in front of him, but a few feet back. He had long arms, and Nayt involuntarily thought of running away.

Nayt noticed there was a dark stain on the hilt of the priest’s metal dagger, likely from blood of a previous Tester. Didn’t the priest realize how valuable that much metal was? 

Some people said the priests burned those who failed the tests, others that they cut them into pieces. Nayt always wondered what happened to the bodies afterwards, as they were never seen again. He broke out in an uncomfortable sweat. The Saba smiled grimly when he saw where Nayt was staring, and placed his hand on the hilt. Nayt gulped.

"If you keep kissing girls instead of preparing for your Test, you will bring further shame on your family." Nayt glanced involuntarily at Fiona, and saw her puffy eyes widen in anger. How did the Sabaa always know?

The High Saba snapped his fingers, and the boy shifted his gaze back to face him. "Now, in the name of the Three and the Four, show me which demon you must strike." The priest didn't move, but suddenly three demons appeared hovering between them, each a different color. The class gasped, and some of the younger kids began crying in fright at the show of dangerous magic.

Without hesitation, Nayt punched the red demon in the face with his left fist. He had seen Jayna do this just last month when preparing for her Testing, so was ready for them to appear.

The priest nodded and the demons faded away. Nayt had never seen magic so close before and had a strong urge to wash his hand. 

"Better than your brother." Being chastised because of his brother’s treachery stung and Nayt averted his eyes in shame. His brother had been the head Saba’s pupil, then turned to demon worship and ran off a decade ago. Nayt had only been a young boy, and only remembered how heartbroken his mother was when it occurred. He glanced around, cheeks red with embarrassment. He hated when anyone brought up his brother’s treachery. Nayt’s entire boyhood was spent trying to be good and pure and show everyone that he would never turn evil like his brother.

Saba Takkai nodded briskly, turned, and walked back towards the Sept across the street. Sitta Naani scowled at the class and followed after her superior.

Nayt turned back to Saba Eetho and the class. Eetho was smiling. "You performed well. You are an honor to the Seven. As this is your last set of worship exercises, I have something for you." Nayt smiled on the outside, but inwardly fought the urge to run. Didn’t they know that he could die tomorrow? Maybe he would turn evil. Just like his brother. He concentrated on getting his thoughts together. He still had to get through today.

Saba Eetho watched as the Head Priests left the courtyard, then visibly relaxed. He turned a grin on the class and gave Nayt a proud pat on the shoulder. Eetho was famous for his practical jokes on departing students. Nayt watched the Saba’s hand, ready for a trick. Eetho had once given a piece of candy to a student that stained their lips black. Nayt warily watched the priest for any tricks.

Suddenly, Nayt felt water pouring down his back. It was freezing!

Sputtering, Nayt turned around to see Peder standing behind him carrying one of Nayt’s larger wicker baskets, dripping with water. Peder was smiling, pleased at the successful prank.

Nayt had spent years making baskets and waterproofing them using saltsap, and was annoyed that his hard work had been used against him. Nayt wondered if Peder had drenched him because Eetho had asked or because he found out that Jayna had kissed Nayt. Both boys had been trying to woo her for years.

Saba Eetho and all of his classmates were laughing heartily, so Nayt smiled while everyone came by and shook his hand. 

The Saba soon dismissed the class and said, "Off with you! Time for work. One more set of school classes in the morning and you’re done!" and shooed the two boys away laughing.