Nayt turned to follow Peder as they walked off towards the docks, happy to have a few extra minutes before their apprenticeships started at first bell. Nayt had to strain to catch up with Peder’s long legs, and huffed sarcastically, “Thanks.”

Peder smiled. “No problem, man. Got to keep things fun when we’re facing death, don’t we?”

Their town was really no more than a village with hundreds of people living within. They had been taught in school that they were one of forty similar villages up and down the river, and there was even a massive city way to the South that had thousands. Nayt was still proud of his home. He loved the strong stone frames around the solid houses and the orderly thatched roofs. Many were wicker thatchings that he had helped to make or repair.

Their home was officially named Weaver’s Launch, but lately many of the boats that docked to trade were calling it Bauer’s Farm, in honor of the rich farmer who lived in a big house to the North. Nayt, being a weaver himself, always cringed when people called it by the nickname. Weaver’s Launch was officially a “Pent” meaning 500 people lived here. Much bigger than the “Cents” that only had 100 citizens. Weaver’s Launch was an old Pent, and all of the stone buildings had been there for thousands of years lovingly maintained by weavers like himself.

Peder looked down at Nayt and shrugged, handing him the basket. "I figured you'd appreciate your own handiwork. Your... Mother gave it to me."

Peder didn't make eye contact, looking around distractedly. He had hoped that Peder might cheer him up, but his friend must also be thinking dark thoughts. Nayt’s brother Salazaar had been a hero to the two boys years ago, and they were still just overcoming the shock of losing Leo. Just a few more days and they would be safe. It was so bittersweet to have your birthday, graduation, and the Testing to all happen at the same time.

Nayt pulled at his arm until Peder slowed down. "What's up? Don't be scared of the Test. Nothing to worry about.” Nayt said it with a false bravado. Peder was never scared of anything but just scowled in response.

Nayt’s Testing was tomorrow, and as Peder had been born just a few days afterwards, his was in three days. Everyone jokingly referred to them as twins because they were the same age and always getting in trouble together, though Nayt was a foot shorter and had dark hair and a square face compared to Peder’s golden curls.

Nayt tried a different tact to get his friend talking. They should at least enjoy their last days together in case something happened to one of them. “Aren’t you supposed to be studying for your final exam?”

“Blast it, Nayt. I’ve been studying all month. I know you passed your exams in an hour, but it’s not that easy for the rest of us. Spawn, man. If I ever see another math equation, I’m going to scream.”

“Well, let me know if you need help. I just don’t want you to give up…”

“Give up? Blast, Nayt. I never give up, do I?”

It was true, Nayt thought, Peder was so thick-headed and stubborn that he never quit something once he had started. He frequently ran out of time on his various projects, though. And, he spent too much time talking about girls and practicing his swordplay and not enough studying lessons.

Weaver’s Launch was a cozy place, with three cobblestone roads going east to west and two going north to south. The stone Sept was the largest building in the middle of the town square, with the Inn and school buildings close-by. There was an Old abandoned tower off to the West that everyone avoided because it was haunted. Peder lived in a large stone house off to the East, and Nayt lived in a tiny wooden cabin with his mother close by. The docks along which Nayt worked rimmed the Southern part of town and the Harper River.

As they walked, Nayt saw a few burnt torches from the previous night. He stopped and grabbed each, replacing it from a bag that Peder carried for him. One pfennig per ten torches replaced. Peder was wealthy and didn’t need the money, but Nayt sure did. Peder always let him keep the profits.

As they walked, a few of the neighborhood dogs trotted behind them. Nayt pulled out a leftover piece of bread that he had wrapped in his pocket, ripped it into pieces, and tossed it to them. Tails wagged and the boys left the dogs to snuff out crumbs.

Nayt and Peder walked in silence for a while, heading toward the dock like they always did after morning exercises. They waved at the crowds walking by, mostly students and people taking a break to go to the noontime market. They knew everyone in the cozy village.

Peder gestured with his hands like he was about to speak and seemed like he wanted to tell his friend something. "Nayt... spawn, this is hard. I just want to say… good luck tomorrow. I should tell you something about the Testing..."

It was expressly forbidden to talk about the Test. Nayt didn't want to get either of them in trouble, so he turned away towards the Weavery, cutting off his friend from speaking further. Peder grimaced, then nodded, catching up behind him on the crowded street.

Nayt sighed as he saw Zeke Bauer walking down the road towards them. His swagger could be seen from miles away. Zeke also had a metal bracelet, which he showed off any chance he got. Such an arrogant demonstration of wealth annoyed Nayt.

Zeke crossed over to their side of the street, and pretended to hold his nose as he walked by.

Zeke said, “If it isn’t dink and doof. I can smell the two of you from miles away. Don’t you poor peasants ever bathe?”

As he passed, Zeke shouldered into Nayt, almost knocking him over. Peder clenched his fist, but Nayt calmed him and shook his head.

Zeke continued down the road towards the harbor master’s building. He was the richest kid in town, one of the son of Farmer Bauer who owned half of the fields in town.

Peder struggled to calm himself, while Nayt just shrugged at Zeke’s arrogance. “We don’t need any trouble with that rich prick, especially before our Testings.”

Peder sighed, “One pop in the eye would just feel so… nice.”

Nayt was always the voice of reason. “Yeah, you could. But, guardsmen are supposed to keep the peace, not break it. Come on, we gotta get to work.”

Peder changed the subject as they walked. “So, you’re dating Jayna now, huh?” It sounded accusatory.

“Yeah. Sorry man, I know you like her too. She just sort of kissed me this morning.”

Peder grimaced, then stood taller and puffed out his chest. “No problem. Plenty of other ladies waiting for me.”

Nayt smiled at his friend’s bravado. “What about Fiona? She’s…” he was about to say pretty but caught himself in time. 

“She’s a hungry waif, all skin and bones. Demonspawn, man. I can do better.” 

Nayt frowned. Peder was always cursing like that. It seemed that calling her poor was in especially bad taste after Zeke had just insulted them for the same thing.

Peder continued. “She’s hardly half my size. I swear she’s probably only four feet tall. She’s cute, but I don’t want any girl that could outfight me. She’s hunted, what, a bugbear and four boars in the last few months? Spawn, man. The girl’s deadly.”

Nayt shrugged. He liked that about her, that she wasn’t afraid of anything. And, his family was hungry most of the time, too. He would love a bugbear steak for dinner every night. They didn’t all have money like Peder, who came from one of the richest families in town. Nowhere as rich as the Bauers, but much wealthier than Nayt and his mother was.

The two best friends arrived at the Weavery, which was a large stone warehouse with many glass windows and multiple doors. They both kneeled in front of the statue of the Maker in front of the building, with Peder bowing deeply and formally. This was where all the creation of things happened in town, where goods were made. It was the biggest Weavery within a hundred miles. Peder’s parents owned the whole place, and employed about twenty weavers to construct wheels and baskets and doors and hundreds of other items.

They stood in silence for a moment, getting ready to say their goodbyes. He saw Peder staring at his necklace. 

Peder was always so fascinated by it. Suddenly overcome with emotion, Nayt reached up and unclasped the small crystal necklace that had belonged to his dead older brother. 

He thrust it into Peder’s hand. "Here," Nayt said, "keep it safe. He always liked you more anyway." 

Nayt tried to make it a joke, but he noticed that Peder's eyes immediately teared up. Nayt had never seen the usually tough Peder act like this before. It was a trying time for both of them.

"Don't worry. I'm sure we'll make it through tomorrow." Peder said as he pocketed the necklace. He turned and clasped Nayt’s hand in his larger palm. Nayt turned to go, both to avoid being late and to get out of that powerful grip.

"Thanks," Nayt called over his shoulder, looking back as he walked to the Weavery. Peder just stood there watching after his friend.

Nayt wondered if Peder was upset, or just worried for him. Nayt wondered why Peder had said, “We’ll make it through tomorrow,” when Peder’s Testing was in four days. The nerves must be getting to Peder. He shrugged, then headed in to get to work. He wasn’t sure, but he had the sense his friend was hiding something.

Nayt entered the large stone Weavery, still soaked. Master Peyton was there, and said nothing at the lad’s wet clothing. 

He smiled, "Nayt, my boy." He waved Nayt towards the water wheel, where Nayt picked up strands of wet bamboo and began work. The Master was a wide man, with broad shoulders and strong hands. Peder was his son, though already stood a head taller than his father.

"Peder drenched me after class today." Nayt said, and Master Peyton smiled even wider at his son's trickster nature.

"Good for him!” the Master said. “If only he would put some of that energy into studying for his final exam. Anyway, you could use some help cooling down and focusing on your last day working for free. Now, I know you need to get your mind off of your Testing, so get to work.” He said it with a smile. That man was always smiling. But, Nayt was pretty sure his Master’s eyes looked sad. He wondered if Master Peyton was more worried for him or for Peder?

Nayt passed by the Sculpture as he entered, and paused to drop in a pfennig and wished for good luck tomorrow. It was beautiful, the wooden coin twirled around a metal rail, then spun upwards into a polished funnel, striking musical chords as it went by to produce a different melody each time. It twirled around, then dropped through a series of metal tubes and popped out from the slot he had put it into. It was a masterpiece of engineering, and had enough metal in it to pay for the entire Weavery building. Master Peyton had built it as a wedding present to his wife, and Nayt remembered how everyone from many towns over would come to marvel at it during the River Festival years ago.

Nayt had admired it every day he worked in the Weavery, and for the last five years he had dreamed about what he could make that could even be half as good. Of course, he would need thousands of crowns to afford that much metal. And much more skill than he currently possessed with wood, glass, and many other materials. And he needed to live through tomorrow’s Testing.

As Nayt was still an Apprentice, he was only allowed to make the most rudimentary things, like baskets or thatched roofing. Weaving, Waxing, and Wainwrighting they called it, another name for making wheels. If he lived, he promised himself that he would become the best maker in town. He was already daydreaming of getting started, and trying to decide what to create first. Nayt thought maybe he should try a shield first, or maybe a helmet for Peder, or maybe something for his mother like a new table or plates. So many possibilities.

He gathered his apprentice materials from the bin that Missus Peyton oversaw. She smiled and ruffled the boy’s hair. He always got along well with Peder’s mom; she was like a second mother to him. She also seemed anxious for him, but didn’t say anything. It was her family that had always owned the Weavery, and she oversaw the money, tools, and equipment while her husband was in charge of training and sales. 

Apprentices were only allowed to have straw and bamboo and gluing materials and waxes. He would have to be a Journeyman before he could use any of the small and valuable pieces of metal or any tool other than a wood-knife or stone hammer. One more day, if he lived.

He sighed as she also handed him bowls of wax to stir. Apprentices always got the boring jobs, and stirring and heating the many different types of waxes and saps was the worst. Today was shrike tar, a waxy substance made from the eggshells of those vicious animals. Valuable, but it smelled like pig dung in its current form. It left a sulfur taste in his mouth, and smelled like a cross between dirty cabbage and farts. At least it was better than lanolin oil, which came from goat armpits and was used to seal and stain bamboo. That stuff always made him gag.

Nayt sat down at the bench he usually shared with Fiona. They always sat together, and some of the older weavers called them the ‘salt’ and ‘pepper’ apprentices, because of her dark skin and his whiter color. She came in soon after, but wouldn't look at him. She picked up her apprentice materials from Missus Peyton then walked to one of the workrooms in the back of the large Weavery building. She was either still mad at him or avoiding the noxious smells, or both.

A shoulder nudged him, and Dom sat down uncomfortably close on the bench next to Nayt, dropping an arm full of bamboo and leather strips over Nayt’s clean workspace. He thunked down a cheap, half-finished clay helmet. Didn’t he know that clay was terrible for helmets? It would get hot in the sun, and would crack after one strike.

Dom asked, “Scared? Because of your brother?”

Dom was two years older than Nayt and had never been very friendly. Nayt though he had space issues and disliked his twitchy whiny voice. 

Dom was known for always making the cheapest items, and never selling for a profit. Looking at his tattered old clothes, Nayt wondered why he didn't try to make at least one or two valuable goods like a storm lantern for a ship or an armored chest plate for one of the town guards. They would take a few days each to make, but at least Dom would be able to afford new pants. A good chest plate would easily sell for five crowns, good enough to buy ten new pairs of pants from the tailors that worked in the back of the building.

Nayt shrugged, though he was getting tired of everyone bugging him about the Test. "I just want to create things. To improve the world. I'm not worried about tomorrow.” Nayt boasted, but was sure Dom could see right through him. Everyone worried about the Testing.

Dom looked up from the helmet he had been forming by cutting and wrapping hard leather over clay. He nodded, as though he felt the same. Dom set his shoulders forward, and was making little stabbing gestures with his cutting knife.

Dom asked, “Why do you think it's called the Testing?" It was a question Nayt had considered, but never wanted to ask aloud. Such questions were forbidden to ask. Saba Takkai was not the forgiving sort, and knew much from his priest magic.

Nayt looked around to make sure no one was within earshot, but didn’t comment. Dom was looking flushed, and spoke faster and in a hushed whisper, "It's a test of how creative you are. Creative people are punished. Like your brother.”

Dom was staring at Nayt, and breathing hard. “Doesn’t it seem weird that we’ve all lived in the same houses and buildings for thousands of years? Never growing? Never making better ones? Creativity is punished.” 

Dom’s face was bright red, and his hands had clenched into fists. Nayt hd never seen the usually passive man ever get that worked up.

Nayt glanced away in horror. How could Dom say such things out loud? Seeing Nayt look away, Dom stood up and stormed off, taking his half-formed helmet, but leaving the scraps for the younger boy to clean up. Dom’s hands were twitching quite a bit as he walked. Maybe all the fumes from the waxes made Dom a bit crazy.

Cleaning up, Nayt saw that the Journeyman had forgotten the nice cutting knife. It was made from pounded noughat hard wood. It had a beautiful shrike tar finish that would help it cut deeply through softer wood and hard wood alike. 

Nayt pocketed it. Nayt wasn’t much of a thief, but thought it served Dom right for being so rude and bringing up Nayt’s demon brother. Of course he would return it later. Probably.