The afternoon passed quickly, and Nayt finished three baskets. Two large ones for carrying food, and one smaller that was waterproofed with a thin layer of tar and then linseed oil. Master Peyton was happy at the quality, and ruffled Nayt’s hair after each one. If Nayt passed the test tomorrow, he would begin to gain a commission on any sales from the goods he created, and would be allowed to make profit for the first time in his life. He thought that the best part of becoming a man would be that he could finally make money, and do what he wanted for a change.

He hoped that he would live until next year when he would get his chance to sell his goods at the River Festival if it was close enough for him to travel there. He had never been to another town, and always dreamed of traveling and making his riches. The Spring River Festival was when one of the Pents along the river held a giant holiday; people from all over would come to buy items. If he lived through his Testing he could be rich… though he needed something good to make, something people would buy.

Nayt finished his last day as an apprentice and received a surprise bear-hug from the Master and Missus as he left. "Be strong," the older man whispered, and then sent the lad on his way. His wife cried silently to see the boy go.

Nayt ran across town and entered their small cabin just as his mother had finished preparing the evening meal, a loaf of sourdough bread and a small bowl of deer meat liberally drowned in a creamy gravy. She’d bought a chocko cake that was covered with white sweet sauce. And a bottle of viez, even though he was too young to drink it. His “goodbye meal”. Did she think he was already doomed?

It was delicious, the best that they had eaten in a month. He thanked his mom for cooking, but she just nodded, not meeting his gaze. They both sat, and ate silently. A few times he tried to bring up the subject of the Test, or school, or Jayna, but just didn’t know how to start. He and his mother had never really talked much in the past. She just never seemed interested in the things he was. Ever since his brother had died, she’d just… given up.

They finally starting a halting discussion of the horses that she worked with. She loved working in the stables, and launched into stories of what each of her eight horses were up to. Nayt sighed. He wished that he could really talk to her about how he felt, about how scared he was of the Testing tomorrow. About how afraid he was that he would be taken by the demons and killed like his brother.

The talk of horses quickly changed into one of money, like it always did. His mother made so little from the stables. She was on her third cup of viez, so wasn’t paying attention to what she said. Nayt felt terrible when she mentioned how much she hoped he would finally be able to support them tomorrow. She also let slip that she was already behind on their rent and had to borrow money to pay for food. He felt so guilty to be such a bother to her.

Nayt thought about how he could begin contributing money to their family income, starting tomorrow. It was an exciting thought, and he let it distract him throughout dinner. Usually Nayt's mother would bring home extra food from the stables like old bread and horse meat, and tons and tons of gravy that the horses hadn't eaten. It tasted good, but he didn't want to think much about what was inside of it and all that gravy wasn’t helping his waistline either. Now that he was courting such a pretty girl as Jayna he knew he should to lose some weight.

As always during these tense dinners, Nayt's gaze wandered to his father's sword hanging above the table. He always thought about his father when he gazed at the sword. It was the most valuable thing that their family owned. That much steel would have paid for a large house. Even though Nayt was ashamed of how his mother had become so passive lately, he was proud that she'd never stooped to selling it. It was the only thing of his fathers that she had kept, and it reminded them both of his glory days when he was captain of the Towns-guard.

She had finished eating, and abruptly stood. He helped her clean up, using a hand to steady her as she wobbled around the room. She had finished the entire bottle. She had been in the Towns-guard too when she was younger, and she was still stubborn. Rather than speaking her feelings, she just drowned the fear away. Nayt hated it, wanted to scream at her to talk to him. Or hug her and say goodbye.

After a few reminders that he’ll be fine if he did the right thing tomorrow and a hasty kiss on Nayt’s head, she stumbled to bed early. The thought of losing her only remaining son was too much to face. It was hard for Nayt to face as well, but he wished he could talk to someone about it. He wiped at some moisture in his eye. Would she even say goodbye?

Everyone kept reassuring him that he had prepared enough, that he would be fine. Almost no one failed their Testing on the first time. But Leo had. What if the demons got him? Or Peder?

Nayt missed his friend. Three months, and the wounds still felt fresh.

Usually Nayt sat up with homemade candles and read through books borrowed from Master Peyton’s library. The books represented more than their small cabin was worth, but the Master loaned them out to select apprentices who showed promise.

The books were lovingly crafted, and contained hundreds of pressed pages of papyrus paper covered with drawings and text. The bindings were made out of lacquered hardwood carved with ornate designs. Most showed construction tips on how to build the things they made in the Weavery... like shields and helmets and chairs. Nayt was always honored to touch such treasures of knowledge, even if he had no idea what they meant. He vowed that if he survived the Testing his inventions would one day be in such books.

Nayt tried to recreate many of the things he had seen in these books and his small room was littered with old wood carvings and gears and waxed rope pieces. He would love to show someone, but would wait until after he was allowed to use all of the tools he had ‘borrowed’ from the Weavery. 

Nayt had carved a set of gears that would move a wood block to lock his door from inside but it would fall apart if someone pushed his door hard from the outside. Most wood walls of their cabin had enough knotholes or small gaps that you could see through the walls from up close but he had filled each of these with small wood cuttings and waxed them to a perfect shine. He was proud of his walls and the small inventions he created. If he lived through the morning he wouldn't have to hide his constructions. He would be allowed to build them openly in his job at the Weavery.

Usually Nayt would sketch and think every night, trying to catch rays of the moonslights through the small windowpane in his room. Tonight, though, he was too anxious for sleep. And the sound of crying from his mother’s room was too painful to hear.

He needed to move. He headed outside for a walk. Both moons were out, but were low on the horizon making for a dark night. He was wandering aimlessly, but soon found himself outside of Peder’s home. He thought about tossing a rock to get Peder to come walk with him. None of the lamps were lit in his room like usual so he must be sleeping.

He kept walking past the Inn and the Schoolhouse, then paused at the Sept with the large stone statues of the Seven Gods.

Nayt had so many questions for the Seven Gods. Why did they Retire people? Why were Demons there that could somehow sneak into people’s souls? What really happened at the Testing Ceremony? Why were Three of the Gods good, and Four considered evil? Why did everyone worship all Seven, and not just the good ones? Peder would probably know, and he wished he could talk with his friend now. Peder was the religious one, and always seemed so confident with these types of questions. Nayt had never much cared for the Seven Gods before, but if there was ever a time to start, it was the night before his Testing.

Nayt paced around, and bent to kneel below each of the Seven. As tradition dictated, he started with the Three good Gods, then moved on to the Four.

The first Three were all men, each quite tall. The Father, the Maker, and the Priest. He bowed especially low in front of the Maker, who was the patron god of all of the Weavers like him. They had a large statue of the Maker carved in front of the Weavery.

Next were the Four evil Gods, which Nayt quickly bowed before. They made him nervous. Each were shorter than the good Gods. The Searcher, the Banker, the Teacher, and the Outsider. The Searcher and the Banker looked to be related, both had large hooked noses. The last two were women, though he never understood why the Teacher was considered evil. The story was that she’d always tried to educate the other evil Gods and turn them to good, but they had corrupted her.

 The Teacher always reminded him of Sitta Naani. She seemed halfway evil, at least in the way she always ran their classes with iron discipline.

When he finished his prayers, Nayt walked down to the river by the Farmers Market and past the Weavery. He again bowed to the statue of the Maker that was in front of the building, before heading out of town towards the West.

Nayt decided he would next head out toward the Old Tower. The tower was the only Old building near the town, and was probably why the village hadn't grown more along the river towards the West. Everyone was afraid of the Old Tower out in that direction, so most homes were in the East side of the town. Old buildings were cursed.

Only a few of the town’s kids would go to the Old Tower to play in the forbidden building. No one wanted to risk the wrath of the Sabaa. Rebellious kids would climb the perfectly carved steps and sit on the overlook to watch boats when they floated down the Harper River.

Nayt knew he shouldn’t temp fate and go to a forbidden place the night before his Testing, but he just felt the urge to do something… rebellious. He always tried so hard to be good and follow all the Sabaa’s rules. He was sick of how much they scared everyone in town. It wasn’t fair.

Why was he so agitated? He would be fine tomorrow. He knew he didn’t worship demons. He had nothing to fear. 

A cool breeze was playing on his face and the gentle rhythm of the river sounds calmed his nerves. 

Maybe it was how everyone today kept talking about his evil brother, and the shame he had brought to their village. Did they think he would turn to demon-worship as well, even if he was only six when his brother ran away? It was so sad that his brother was hunted down and killed by the Sabaa. Of course, going to the Old Tower at night wouldn't help their opinion if he were caught, so Nayt made sure to keep to shadows just in case. He touched the hilt of Dom's knife, clutching it on the off chance that there were any slavers about from the Iron lands in the North. None had been around in years so he was probably safe.

Nayt snuck in through the front door of the tower, and climbed the steps to the top. He had hoped that the Old building would calm him, but in the dark it seemed alien and risky. Even the steps were different, made out of some stone that was still perfectly square, despite the thousands of years of neglect. Someday, maybe he could make things that were as strong. If he lived.

At the top, he pulled out a blanket that Peder and he had stashed there months ago. When they came up here, it felt like their problems were small and distant, like the few flickers of torchlight in the town below. Maybe that’s why he had come up here today. Maybe it was also because he wanted to see the stars, to remember them for one last time.

Nayt’s father and brother had taught him the names of many stars and constellations. It almost felt like they were with him again as he looked up at the stars and moons. During his walk, the two minor suns had begun to show on the other side of the sky in addition to the moons, turning that area slightly pink. It was beautiful. A Lucky Night, the older stories called it, when all four were out.

In addition to the big Day Sun that had now set, Torch and Candle were the two baby stars, though some people called them the Dying Brothers. They were both yellow and looked more like their namesakes, much brighter than the thousands of other stars in the sky. Torch was bigger and glowed like a flaming orange ball of light. Candle was much smaller and flickered.

The two moons were Mona and Belinda, or the two Loving Sisters. Mona was large and white with many scars on her face. Belinda was smaller and gold and supposed to bring riches to merchants when alone in the sky. 

He tried to think through why the Sabaa would even care so much about demon worshippers. The Sabaa preached that the end of the world would be here soon. It was when the evil Torch ate his brother Candle. When it happened, people who were good and followed the teachings of the Seven Gods would be reborn to join the stars and the Loving Sisters would protect them from certain death. Nayt never could understand how people would be reborn, or how they would get up into the sky. Were the Loving Sisters and the Dying Brothers supposed to be old Gods that had died? He hoped it wasn’t going to be part of his Testing tomorrow. Someone would have warned him if he needed to study Religion, wouldn’t they?

His father had said the sky was like a big dark room, and stars were holes poked in the ceiling where light from outside got in. His brother had said that stars were big balls of fire hanging in the sky very far away. Out here alone at night, both theories seemed slightly crazy.

He never really listened much to the Sabaa, unlike Peder who was a true believer. Nayt just asked too many questions when they had religion classes. Why were people Tested only when they were 15? Why did people who got sick or turn 60 have to Retire? Why could you only have kids when someone else died or was Retired? Why would the Seven Gods have let his father and brother get killed? They could never answer his questions fully, and he learned to stop asking before the priests got upset. 

Fiona’s brother Leo had asked those same questions to Sitta Naani so many times that she became furious and shouted at him, and he had later failed his Test. Nayt hoped they had forgotten that he also asked about such things. He didn’t want to die, especially for just asking questions.

Lying here was peaceful, at least it was until a hand from behind him bent down and clasped over his mouth and face. It was a big hand, and he couldn’t see around it, especially in the night. Another arm picked him up and started carrying him down the dark stairs.

He tried to scream and kick, but the arm holding him was very strong. He froze, thinking that Saba Takkai had found him sneaking about. Of course, the Saba would not grab him and there would be more yelling.

It must have been Peder behind him playing a prank. Nayt relaxed and let himself be carried down the stairs into the small room under the stairs, where a lit torch was hanging from the wall. He was sure the room had been dark when he walked up the stairs. He caught glimpses ofore the walk down, and thought he recognized the shape of Peder’s shoulders behind him, though he was wearing a black robe.

Nayt turned, ready to laugh at his friend’s joke. Then he received his second shock. It was a tall well-built stranger, wearing a dark black cloak. He had carried Nayt under the stairs in the tower and closed a metal door behind them. It was an antique storage room, now empty. 

"What, you don't recognize your own brother?" 

Nayt stared. What? His brother was dead. Killed by Saba Takkai years ago after they hunted him into the forest.

He looked again. It looked like Salazaar, but older. Nayt had been very young when Salazaar left but could clearly recall how he looked. He was tall, strong, though looked to be barely thirty. What was going on? 

Nayt marveled at how tall Salazaar was, just like Father. And still strong. He must be turning thirty this year, though he still looked healthier than most of the other old men in the village. He looked a decade younger. Maybe the green demons that he sold his soul to kept him young with their magic. They had always called Nayt the runt of the family, and he felt that embarrassment returning now. That and the additional shame at being the brother of a demon worshipper.

Demon worshipper. Oh no, not today. If the Sabaa thought they were together, Nayt would be killed for sure.

Nayt sucked in a breath to scream.

The man tensed and moved to cover his hand over Nayt’s mouth.

Nayt grabbed the dagger from his belt and brought it up towards the man’s face, but the cloaked figure was suddenly gone and Nayt could only see blackness. 

The torch was instantly and completely dark. Magic! He struggled to remain logical. The torch hadn't even dimmed before going fully dark. Was Salazaar able to command fire, just like the wizards in the old stories?

Nayt stood perfectly still, trying to control his ragged breathing. He listened, but the only thing that he could hear was the sputtering of the tar from a burning torch. But, the torch was out, wasn't it?

"Salazaar?" Nayt asked, his voice shifting from fright to anger.

A hand clasped over Nayt’s mouth again just as another clutched his wrist and forced him to drop the dagger. The torch was suddenly visible again, burning exactly as it had been. It was magic. Illusion. Nayt’s brother had used magic on him. It shocked the scared boy into silence.

"Good," his brother said. "I need to tell you something very important. It will keep you alive tomorrow." Nayt looked at the demon worshipper, wary. Nayt was terrified of that evil magic. Power like that must rival even Saba Takkai’s skills.

"Tomorrow, at noon, no demons will visit you. But, you must pretend that they do, or Takkai will kill you." 

Nayt wasn’t sure if he was more surprised at what his brother said, or that he didn't use Saba Takkai's proper title. No one would dare to disrespect the head priest. No one except for his former pupil, Nayt’s outcast brother.

"What?" Nayt stammered. After he spoke, Nayt realized what he should have asked instead. Like Where have you been? or Don't you know Mom thinks you're dead?, or How did you get here? or the real question Nayt wanted to ask, Why do you care?

"The ceremony tomorrow. Listen very carefully, as I must go in a moment. When it is noon, do the kata. Then you must scream and clutch your head and tell Takkai you see a red demon. Not green, red. Do your moves and pretend to punch it. He will kill you if he thinks it is fake, or you say anything other than red." 

Nayt just stared at him, incredulous. No one had ever told him the secrets of the Testing before, and he had always thought they would be much more detailed and intricate.

Nayt waited for his brother to continue. When he didn’t, Nayt said. "That's it?" 

He wanted to kick himself. Another brilliant question. “Won’t he know you told me?”

Salazaar shook his head. “They can’t hear inside homes or in Old buildings like this. We’re secure. That's all you need to know. Just tell him you saw the red demon and act terrified. Otherwise, he'll kill you."

"Why do you care?" Finally, Nayt had asked the right question.

"Nayt." The man put his hand on the younger boy’s shoulder; probably thinking it was a brotherly thing to do. Nayt had to fight not to shrug it off or to punch him. "I've protected you my entire life. I will always watch out for you and Peder."

What? Why did he mention Peder? What was going on here? Peder's birthday and Testing was in three days, was Salazaar going to try to trick him, too? Nayt decided that he didn’t trust his brother, and would tell Saba Takkai at the first chance he got.

Salazaar suddenly glanced up, like he was looking through the wall. "Now, I must go. A guard will be walking by in a minute. If there are three people close together, it will allow them to see my position. They still think I’m dead.”

He handed Nayt back the knife, and turned. "I will find you soon and explain everything if you've survived." He opened and stepped through the door, closing it behind him. He didn’t hear the clang that Nayt’s knife made striking at the spot where his head had been, as it was a thick metal door. 

Nayt regained control of his angry breathing and extinguished the torch. For real, this time. He peeked out of the large perfectly rectangular stone door of the outside tower. Sure enough, old Kelter was walking patrol and stepping up towards the tower's walkway. The guard peered around for a few minutes, but didn't step inside. Nayt held his breath in the blackness, and fought not to make a sound. It seemed forever, but Kelter finally turned around and walked off towards the docks.

Nayt ran home, scared and confused. He kept looking over his shoulder, afraid both of being caught and of his brother suddenly returning. 

He quietly opened the door, and crawled into bed, thoughts whirling in his head. He knew he should go tell the priests about his brother… but the truth was that he missed Salazaar. It had been nine years since he had left. At least now he knew his brother was alive. It wasn’t fair. Why was life so hard?

 Nayt’s crying sounds joined that of his mother’s in the next room as they both drifted into fitful sleep.