Fiona woke early to the crowing of the roosters outside. Rolling off the furs she slept on, she tiptoed around her sleeping parents and grabbed a clay pitcher of water. She washed herself in the cistern outside then grabbed her hunting gear. Her parents stirred, then called for her to help them. She paused, putting off the hunt a bit longer to go in and change the bandages on her dad’s leg and tend to her mother, who had been coughing all night.

She really wanted to get out and hunt. She was annoyed at all she had to do to take care of the house. 

Fiona suddenly felt guilty. She knew she really should put off hunting a bit longer and finish her chores. She opened the gate in the hen house, ushering the chickens in with the roosters. She would separate them when she got back later to keep any fights from breaking out. Taking care of two score of chickens was annoying, but the eggs and anything she hunted was their family’s only source of income. Lastly, she stopped to pet Penelope her pig, then do a quick wash behind her ears and dump out a pail of apples and old corn cobs that she’d brought home last night. Penelope squmpfed in joy, and dug into the slop, wiggling her curly tail.

Fiona went inside, hugged her parents, then happily grabbed her gear.

Setting off into the forest, Fiona decided to try the Smokey woods to the West, as she hadn’t hunted there in weeks. She had been spending more time in the forest closer to home in the South and East beyond the Bauer farms. Her brother had taught her to rotate her hunting grounds so as not to exhaust the game. 

She had to walk along the outskirts of Farmer Bauer’s lands, but she hurried by them so the crotchety old farmer and his pain-in-the-butt son wouldn’t yell at her. They owned most of the farmlands in the area, but that hadn’t given either of them a pleasant personality.

It was barely past dawn. She had two hours until classes started in town, so enjoyed her time in the forest. She loved the leaves of the oak and elm trees, and especially the white bark of birch trees, which could be used as cheap paper and for some medicines used by the town healer. 

She ran her hands over the birch bark, enjoying the feel of the soft wood against her skin. She cut off a long piece that she could use to write on in class today. The richer kids bought their own paper from the Weavery where she worked, but she didn’t need their money when she had her smarts.

Fiona left a few traps for rabbits or other small game, and then filled her water skin and filled her belt pouch with tea leaves and berries. She looked forward to walnut season even though it was still a few months off. She could get an easy pfennig from selling a handful of walnuts in town. 

She almost stepped on a forest snake, but her foot tingled warning her of the danger. She was getting much better at feeling the warning sense, and noticed now that it was constantly giving her small clues whenever she hunted or went towards dangerous areas of the forest. Of course, sometimes she wanted the dangerous areas as that’s where the good meat was.

It took nearly an hour until she saw two deer drinking downstream. She quietly snuck downwind of them to a good vantage point. Her small size and green clothing helped her remain unseen. She drew her bow, and dropped one of them. 

She didn’t need both deer, so didn’t even try to kill the other, even though it looked up and around in confusion when it’s friend dropped. Not very smart. Some of the older boys would probably kill it just for the fun, like Peder, who was always showing off his strength, or Zeke Bauer, who seemed to think that being rich gave you the right to be cruel.

“Go!” she shouted, and it fled away.

She dressed the deer, and removed most of the meat. Since her run-in with the Bugbear last spring, she took a backpack with her everywhere now. She wrapped the meat, and jogged back home with her prize. She stored most of the meat into their earth cellar so that she could cook it later. It was really just a three-foot hole dug under their wood hut, but her father had always called it a “cellar” to his friends. Funny that those friends never came by anymore now that he was missing a leg and couldn’t buy them drinks.

Fiona started the hearth fire in their stone fireplace, and put in the handful of tea leaves and prepared some deer meat on the cooking stone. She woke her father, reminding him that he needed to feed her mother and that she would be back soon.

He was so listless lately, and his leg had begun festering. She cleaned the bandage. She hated the Sabaa, but maybe it was time to ask one to come help bless him before it got worse. She would ask Saba Eetho as he was the nicest of the bunch. The town healer was so expensive but maybe the Sabaa would use some of their magic to help.

Fiona ran towards town. She didn’t want to be late for school but knew her parents needed the help. Her father had lost his leg in a logging accident, and could barely move. Her mother had caught the pox a year ago, and had lost half of her weight to the disease. She was exhausted just waking up, and could barely go make water on her own. To make things worse, her Father was suggesting that he and her mother should just Retire early to end the pain and strain on her. She wouldn’t allow it. Couldn’t allow them to die. Not after just losing her brother.

She ran down Huntsman's Way, the small cobblestone road that ran next to the stream by her house and out from the Bauer fields into town. Bauer was the only one who used the stream to move goods around while everyone else walked the path. She passed a few of the field workers, wheat-pickers from the looks of them. One of them banged into her shoulder roughly as she walked by. They always gave her trouble for being so poor and having the ugliest house along the road. Zeke always taunted her and her pig, Penelope, so the others did too.

With her brother gone, Fiona found it increasingly harder to take care of her parents and also manage her job, school, and hunting. She wanted to leave, to have adventures, to see the world, but they needed her here. Her adventures weren’t important.

She sighed, realizing she was descending into self-pity. Fiona, bear-slayer, the younger kids called her. She didn’t feel very tough when she spent every waking moment caring for her sick parents.

Walking into town, she saw Farmer Bauer riding a raft full of barrels and bushels. The wealthy farmer was gruff and never smiled so she had long ago decided to act overly nice back towards him. She waved to him. It seemed to anger him even more when she was so pleasant. He frowned at her like he always did. She smiled and he turned his head away.

Farmer Bauer had always yelled at her brother to not hunt on his land and claimed that the forests around his fields belonged to him as well. When they were younger, Fiona and her brother Leo had played with the two Bauer daughters, but the Farmer later forbid his children to play with such “poor peasants”. It was hard to take and Fiona had grown apart from the other girls even though she saw them every day in school. Their older brother Zeke was constantly scornful whenever he saw her and would always dump trash near their house as he walked home.

Not the best of neighbors, or, as close to neighbors as you can be when one has a small cabin with a few chicken coops and a fat old pig, and the other has tens of acres of rich farmlands and a giant manor house. Most people in town had families that were related to each other somehow though the Bauers usually married from towns farther out, even as far as the Capitol.

Bauer was the richest man in the entire town, and owned half of the farmlands to the North. After every long winter he always found a way to store enough food to keep selling after every other farmer had run out. While he did keep the town from starving, his prices always increased the colder the winter became.

Bauer had even received permission from the Sabaa to have a third child, arguing that he needed another man to help run the farm. He was quite upset that it had turned out to be a second daughter and rumors were that he had received permission for a fourth kid. If he didn’t employ half of the town, she was sure that alone would have made her hate him. His personality just added fuel to the fire.

She shook her head as she saw the six giant barrels on his raft, full to overflowing with wheat. The barrels were sealed though they were the same ones he had always used on his large farm. He couldn’t take such a flat-bottomed craft far down the rough river, so she figured he must plan to sell at the market in town. He was heading in a little late as most people would either be working now or in classes. Maybe he meant to sell at the noontime break, but he was a few hours early for that?

Arriving at the schoolhouse, Fiona noticed everyone was subdued and quiet. She was late again. Everyone had finished their morning Kata and moved into the small wooden classroom. She wondered who would teach today. One of the Sabaa or one of the other normal teachers?

She had wanted to skip school today, as it was Nayt’s last day. Seeing him, her heart sank. After not getting a chance to say goodbye to her brother, she promised herself that she would at least make sure she had that chance with Nayt. Even if he was in love with that idiot Jayna who always smelled like fluff and strawberries.

Looking around, she saw that he and Peder were sitting in the corner. Peder was uncharacteristically quiet and still in his seat, while Nayt sat starting blankly at his desk top rather than sketching some new invention or scheming with Peder. She went over to say hello and wish Nayt luck in his Testing, but their somber expressions saddened her. She just waved instead, then sat down behind them.

Fiona wanted to give Nayt a hug but blushed thinking of how he had seen her mostly naked last month. Since he had jumped into the water to help her she had begun noticing him as more than just a friend. He was smaller than most other kids his age but heroic in his own way.

He was brave and clever and didn’t tease her like Peder always had. Peder was much taller with blond curled hair and had such thick shoulders, but she liked how Nayt always talked about building things and the books he borrowed from Master Peyton. Peder had given her both the nicknames shark and slayer, and liked to tease her about carrying dead meat through the river. Nayt never teased.

She remembered that she was mad at Nayt now that he was dating Jayna. Fiona couldn’t see why someone like Nayt would be interested in such a dumb blond girl. Jayna seemed much more suited to Peder and his boisterous personality. They could have tall golden haired babies together. It was impossible for her to understand why the boys didn’t see that clearly.

Babies and marriage were all that Jayna talked about when boys weren’t around. Fiona didn’t want children, didn’t want to be married, and didn’t want more people to take care of. Plus the Sabaa outlawed having kids until the age of twenty, and you could only have two per family anyway unless you were super rich like the Bauers, who apparently could break all the rules. Farmer Bauer was one of the village elders, and so was also immune from any crimes. It was totally unfair.

Saba Eetho called the room to attention with a prayer, and reminded everyone to pray for Nayt who would have his test and graduation today. As if everyone didn’t know. He started the class by drawing a picture of the world on the chokkboard. Geography. It was her favorite topic. To be honest, she liked anything not taught by that fat old pig, Saba Takkai, or that angry old she-bear, Sitta Naani. The last of the town Sabaa, the young beautiful priestess named Sitta Aimee was a good teacher, but always distracted all the boys in class with her long hair and hourglass shape. Probably why she only taught the youngest kids.

They began discussing why there were Pents evenly spaced along the Harper River with 500 people each. One student in the back suggested it was to honor the Seven Gods, until Saba Eetho pointed out that there were ten Pents along each river, and they were only the seventh out from the capitol. Fiona wanted to make that voyage more than anything. Only seven days on a boat to get to the giant capital. What would life be like in a big city instead of their dirty town?

Saba Eetho drew the four rivers heading out from the Capitol and the 10 Pents along each river, except for the Northern River that had only five Pents. Above those, it was the Iron Lands, with their godless savages that enslaved and murdered people. While everyone hated the Iron Lands, Fiona always secretly thought that it must be better than living in her stupid town where everyone picked on her family because of their dark skin color and lack of money. There she could be a great warrior and hunt down her enemies.

The questions moved to why the towns were evenly spaced at 25 miles in between each. No one had a good answer, including Sabaa Eetho. He just said it was the will of the Father. She knew it was more likely that one of the evil Sabaa had just decided to make it so. Just like they had decided how many people could live in each town and how many children each family could have, or even worse, why no one could have children until a Saba allowed them to, and that no new children could be born until someone was Retired, like they retired her brother.

She hated the child laws. It made things worse. The terrible sadness that she felt at her brother’s murder just made her feel angrier because one of the other girls got to celebrate that she could finally have a baby. If murder is what it took to have a baby, she would never even try to have one. The entire system sickened her. In the Iron Lands, they said people had as many kids as they wanted. Who cared if they didn’t have Sabaa to bless them when they died?

Someone asked about the nearest Pents of Shore and Huge. Even though they were only a one-day boat ride away, few of the kids had ever traveled to them. Saba Eetho assured them that their town of Weaver's Launch was the nicest Pent along the river, but she doubted it. Why would theirs be any nicer? She hated their town with all the mean bullies and rich farmers.

Next they had a quiz to see who could name the most Cents. She was able to remember 14 of the small towns, and was beat only by Nayt who listed three more than her. He was a bit of a show off, but she still liked that he wasn't boring like everyone else in this stupid town. 

Fiona raised her hand, and Saba Eetho called on her, smiling. She walked up to the board and tapped on an empty spot. “Saba, what is here?”

It was her favorite part of class and something she asked him every time he taught.

He looked off into the distance, then turned and drew a small picture of waves on the board. “There’s a large waterfall right about there with a river surrounded by giant rocks. The rocks are covered in green algae.”

She grinned, then pointed to another spot on the board, this one closer to where their town was. “And here?”

He again looked off into the distance. Fiona was never sure if he was using his priest’s magic or just playing with them, though he always seemed to answer confidently. She kept a map at home anyway, later recording every location he ever said. Just in case he was being honest.

Sabaa Eetho answered, “Right about there is the Cent of Oakenvale. It’s about 14 miles to the Southeast of us. This morning, they had a large purple Faetree that fell down close to town. And, before you ask, the Cent of Lakes is right next to it, only 9 miles away. They have a problem with beavers up stream that have dammed up their main stream into town. Now, before we spend the entire morning playing, it is time to switch over to mathematics.” The class groaned, though Fiona saw Nayt perk up. It was his favorite subject.

Cents were much smaller than Pents and were only allowed to have 100 people in each town. Fiona thought living in a Cent would be even worse than their ugly Pent of Weaver's Launch. Everyone would know everything you did and there would be no privacy. At least in their town it was big enough that there were still a few people that didn't care about her business. Even if you didn’t know everyone on sight, you knew everyone’s family and house. Most people were somehow related though after being cousins it wasn’t worth keeping track. It reminded her of how much everyone taunted her and looked down on her family. She had been cheering up, but felt herself getting depressed again.

Fiona hated living here, having to take care of everyone and never having a moment to herself. She wanted so much to go see those places that Saba Eetho talked about from his visions. She unclenched the fist that she had been making.

The only thing Fiona really wanted was to see the world, to have her own adventures, and possibly to make Sitta Naani pay for killing her brother. She knew there had to be a better life than this stupid close-minded town with the evil Sabaa who spied on everything you ever did. A life where she could go to all the placed she had seen in the magic disk so long ago.