His last day of classes was annoying. Nayt already passed graduation exams, so didn’t see the point in having to go the extra day. At least he got to see his friends one last time, even if they were all quiet and not very talkative. 

The entire morning was a struggle within himself whether he should go to the Sabaa and report the conversation with Salazaar or not. On one hand, his brother had left years ago and let him think that he was dead. On the other, he was family, and he seemed like he was trying to help Nayt. Unless he only said those things to get Nayt killed. Salazaar wouldn’t do that, would he? Of course, the other alternative was that it was just a different kind of test. Maybe Saba Takkai had made the illusion of Salazaar appear to see what Nayt would do? It was too much. He couldn’t decide what to do. So he did nothing.

Peder left him alone all morning, and even Fiona seemed to be ignoring him. He should have skipped class and practiced his Kata. He had done the moves a thousand times. He wouldn’t forget them now, would he?

The worst thing of the morning was that his mother didn’t show up to teach. It was Thursday, and she usually gave a morning class on animal handling. She hadn't made it to the schoolhouse, and Saba Eetho had stepped in to cover the lesson. He knew that she probably couldn’t face the pain, but he really wanted to say goodbye one last time. He knew that she loved him, but she was so wrapped up in her own pain that she forgot about his.

Maybe he should just leave early and go for a ride on one of the horses. Nayt loved riding, but hadn’t been doing as much lately. His mother had taught him to ride bareback, and the thought of the happier times with her brought him a pang of sadness.

Nayt spent most of the morning with Peder and Fiona, writing numbers and words on the chokkboard and trying to pretend that the Test wouldn't happen at noon. Fiona was picking fights with everyone, including Saba Eetho. Peder was even worse, and hadn’t said anything all morning. Didn’t they realize that it might be the last time he saw them? Fiona’s brother Leo had gone off to his test cheerfully then never returned. He almost that would be better than all of this moping around.

About two hours into class, Nayt noticed that Peder stood up when none of the teachers were looking, and just walked out of the small schoolhouse. Nayt thought that maybe Peder left to help his parents with selling goods to the boat that had docked last night. Or maybe he was still mad from finding out yesterday that Nayt was dating Jayna. Or he thought that Nayt would get himself killed today. Peder left when Nayt needed him the most, and had only mumbled a hasty “Bye” on his way out the door.

Saba Eetho, Sitta Naani, and Sitta Aimee held a small ceremony to mark his 15th birthday and successful graduation. All three were quiet and didn’t make eye contact with him, though they each expressed their confidence that they would see him later after he was officially a man.

Just like in the exercises yesterday, he finished by shaking all of his classmate’s hands, and saying goodbye. In his mind, it sounded very permanent. Nayt thought that graduations would be much happier if students knew they would successfully live through the day.

Even with all of the drama and pain of leaving, Nayt would miss the morning classes. He loved all the things there were to learn. If he lived, he would be working all day from now on, instead of just the afternoons.

Instead of going to noontime exercises like he had for the past few years, Nayt nervously walked to the village square behind the school. Saba Takkai was next to the Sept waiting for him. Nayt noticed that the High Priest was standing next to the statue of the Outsider, and gulped. He hoped it wasn’t a bad omen.

Someone else had a birthday today as well; a sailor from a small riverboat that had docked to trade this morning. The sailor was standing by the Sept and looking around, obviously new to the town.

Saba Takkai approached him and put a possessive hand on the sailor’s arm. “Hello Roe. Blessings on your birthday.”

“Umm, thanks Saba. Coulds I also have 3 crowns out of my account? I has 9 crowns and 5 pfennigs in it.”

The Saba nodded, squinting, “You have 8 crowns and 5 pfennigs in it, you mean.”

Roe quickly corrected himself, “Oh. Yep. I means 8. Sure.”

The Saba nodded, as if it was an honest mistake and the sailor wasn’t trying to trick him. “Of course, by the light of the Three, come inside. After your test I will withdraw your money, with the usual withdraw fee, of course. Also, how is your cough doing? I’ll have the town healer make you some medicine for it. She has a new way of using pine needles that she’s looking to test on someone.” Nayt could see the panic in Roe’s eyes. It was bad enough that the Three and the Four knew everything about you but priests that you’d never met shouldn’t also know details of your health and finances.

Nayt was ushered inside the Sept, an antiquated stone building that sat perfectly in the middle of town. He passed by the statues of the Three and the Four as he entered and said a last silent prayer for their help. As he entered, he purposefully avoided glancing at the Door of Retirement and the deadly Servitors that waited inside.

It was Nayt’s first time inside the large building and despite his fear, he admired the stonework that had gone into putting the walls together.

The Inn, the Barracks, and the Sept were the only two-story buildings in town. He had been in the others, but they were nothing like this. All of the walls were perfectly straight, and the only wood was decorative. Nayt almost forgot why he was here, until Saba Takkai cleared his throat and urged him along. The Sept and was where all four of the town Sabaa trained and lived. The Sept wasn’t quite a church because prayers were held outside, but there were large portraits of the Seven Gods along the hallways.

Saba Takkai ushered Roe to the stern Sitta Naani, then took Nayt into a small room at the end of the hallway. They entered a dark and tight room.

Nayt reached out a hand to steady himself, and noticed that the walls were made of a smooth stone. Looking carefully, he could see that they were perfectly cut rectangular stones all fitted together. Beautiful workmanship. And, there were two round metal bubbles poking out of the wall at knee-height. Amazing to have so much metal just sitting there.

He looked around, then remembered the seriousness of the situation. He might not live through this.

The tiny room was lit with candles, and smoky from some sort of heavy incense. It was hot, very hot. Nayt’s eyes watered and he coughed. His hands were trembling, and he realized he was breathing heavily. 

Should he confess to the Saba about his brother and last night? Nayt thought he would be able to, but now he just couldn’t. Not when his fate was so close to being decided. Maybe after the ceremony. If he lived. He wiped a tear from his eye. He just wanted this to be over.

Saba Takkai had been leading the Testings for many years, and it annoyed Nayt that he looked quite bored. The priest maneuvered Nayt stand in the middle of a metal circle carved into the floor, then closed the door behind them and bolted it. There was another door in the side of the room, and Nayt gulped when he realized it must be another entrance to the Room of Retirement. If he failed, would the Servitors come in and take him? Is that how he would die?

The room was dark, but Nayt could see some of what Saba Takkai was doing. The priest took out his long ceremonial knife from the belt on his robe and unsheathed it. He spoke, barely visible from behind the billowing cloud of smoke, "It will be noon in a minute and a half. You remember your motions." It was more of a statement than a question.

Nayt nodded and the two waited. The Saba gestured, and smoke began pouring out of the two metal bubbles on the wall. The room grew much hotter. Steam. The metal bubbles had jets of steam shooting out of either side. More smoke filled the room, blinding Nayt. He couldn’t breath, couldn’t think. His nostrils flared with pain at the heat, and his tongue felt thick. He moved over to be as far from the steam as possible. Saba Takkai ignored the smoke.

After what seemed like forever, he just couldn’t take it any more. Nayt took a small step forward to confess everything, but then he noticed the priest tightening his grip on the knife. Would Sabaa Takkai really stab him? Kill him right here? The man had taught Nayt in school for years. Nayt was suddenly very angry that anyone would have such power over him. He would tell this priest nothing.

"It is time. Begin your Kata.” Takkai gestured, and noises rang out all around them. Sounds of women screaming and babies crying. Sounds like the chants of his classmates. Instead of speaking, Nayt remembered his brother's instructions and screamed as though frightened, then began his moves.

It was so hard to see through the smoke and steam that he probably wouldn't have known if a demon appeared or not. He was hot and dripping with perspiration, but he did his moves perfectly: Sad Mother, spoke his name, Water Wheels, then Punch. It was over in seconds. The noise abruptly quieted while the smoke and steam began to clear. The room became much cooler and Nayt took a deep shaky breath. He was covered in sweat and water droplets.

Saba Takkai leaned towards him. “You saw it? You saw the green demon?" 

Nayt was surprised. His brother Salazaar had said it would be a red demon? Was it all a trick to get Nayt killed? What should he say? He saw Takkai’s grip tighten, then blurted out, "Red! It was a red demon.” The Saba visibly relaxed as the steam and smoke finished clearing, leaving the room cooler.

"You're done. You pass. As you know, you must come back every year on your birthday at noon or the demons will devour your soul and you will die. The demons are evil and tricky. If you ever see a green demon, you must come tell me or one of my Sabaa at once. If you are out of town, find the nearest Sabaa immediately and the take the Testing with them.”

Nayt wondered what was happening. How could Takkai not know that he had faked the test? Shouldn’t his magic tell him something? And, what was with all of the lights and smells and sounds? Was it all for show? He felt like the Sabaa was trying to hide something. Something big.

The priest continued reciting. “If you miss your Testing, the holy Seven will reach down and kill you that day. Remember that the Testing ceremony and what happened here is a secret and you are to speak nothing of it to anyone. I will know if you do." He said it all in one fast breath, as though he had repeated this same thing thousands of times before. Most likely, he had.

"On a personal note, I'm happy you lived." He sheathed his long metal knife. "Your brother Salazaar was very much a disappointment to me and my whole village.“ 

Nayt noticed the priest didn't say 'their' whole village. 

"I know that Dom spoke to you of the Testing yesterday, but you wisely said nothing. You know that it is wrong to speak of the Testing to anyone. You are 15 today and now a man. Do not let that type of reckless behavior overcome you. Dom will receive his punishment. Now, go and celebrate that you are walking in the righteous path of the Three and the Four true Gods."

Nayt was stunned. He had forgotten about Dom’s conversation yesterday. Everyone knew that the Sabaa could hear you if you spoke out against the Gods, but Nayt had never before heard such detailed proof. But, how did the priest not know of the contact last night from Nayt’s brother?

The priests could apparently hear anything spoken out loud while in town, but not the Old tower. The Sabaa's magic was very powerful, but apparently not perfect. Somehow, Salazaar had tricked them and caught Nayt up in his plans. Nayt felt even more nervous now than before the Testing.