Nayt stumbled out of the Testing building, and was gratified to see a cluster of his friends and family waiting nervously outside then cheer his arrival. He was soon followed by the older Tester from the other room, who blinked at the light and gave a wave to the crowd. The sailor then realized no one was here for him, shrugged, and walked off towards the inn. He looked like he needed a strong drink.

Both Nayt’s mother and Jayna ran up to hug and kiss him at the same time, both streaming tears. They both seemed surprised to see the other, and each kept one hand possessively on his shoulder.

Others patted his back and wished him a "Happy Birthday!" Missus Peyton handed him a chocko cake that she had bought that morning, which Master Peyton almost crushed when he gave Nayt a huge bear hug. Nayt noticed that Peder was nowhere to be seen; could he still be that worried for him?

As he stood in the crowd, he saw Zeke Bauer walking by, shaking his head. The young noble actually seemed upset that Nayt hadn’t been killed. He walked on without saying any words of congratulations. Nayt scowled after him.

Saba Eetho stepped out of the Sept, wearing a fine purple cloak over his usual brown robes. "Friends," he called out, his voice louder and more serious than Nayt had ever heard it before. "Our village has a new man." More cheers, and everyone stepped back. "Is there anyone who will sponsor this man into a profession?"

Master Peyton stepped forward and said, "We sponsor Naytan Fabe as a Journeyman in the guild of Weavers." Then he stepped towards Nayt and handed him a painted wooden 10-crown coin. "And here is the wages owed from his time as an apprentice." 

Nayt took the precious coin, then turned and handed it to his mother as ceremony dictated. 10 crowns probably wasn’t much for 5 years of apprentice work; but it was more money than he had ever touched, about enough to buy half of a cow — the good half. That would feed him and his mother for a year if they lived frugally.

Nayt planned to start earning that much each month now that he could start making and selling his own goods. He knew he had the best ideas of any of the other weavers who just built and rebuilt the same boring old items. He had promised himself that he would become the best maker in town, a master merchant that would be richer than Farmer Bauer with all of his lands.

Everyone smiled and the party soon moved to the inn across the street which was named the Blue Iguana. Nayt had no idea what an iguana was, but as they ordered him a glass of viez mixed with the juice of an orange, he soon forgot to ask. 

Master Kvothe, the innkeeper, brought the drink himself and clapped Nayt on the back. Nayt had fixed a hole in his roof last month, and the shorter man had always been kind to him. The innkeeper then took up his wooden six-stringed lute and played them all a celebratory tune.

After an hour of sipping his fizzy drink and talking with friends (and many tear-filled kisses from Jayna), Nayt saw Peder enter from the back of the inn and pick up a drink. It seemed that Peder was trying to look as though he had been there the entire time.

Barely a few minutes later Saba Eetho raised his hand and spoke again to the gathered group, "OK, this birthday celebration's over. I think you all need to get back to work, especially our newest Journeyman. We will be having another celebration in three days for Peder, I trust?" 

Peder gulped, then looked around guiltily. “Spawn…,” he said, under his breath. When he saw smiles of encouragement from the crowd, Peder must have realized that no one had noticed his absence, and he waved back at them. Nayt shook his head at Peder for always being lucky like that. He must have been sneaking around with some girl. The girls loved Peder with his tall muscular frame and curly blond hair.

Everyone quickly departed to their afternoon jobs.

Peder seemed in a much better mood, and joked with Nayt as they escorted Jayna back to the bakery. She was still in kissy mode, and was smothering Nayt every step of the way. It was nice, but he kept stumbling as they walked. Peder took no notice, and laughed at the two love birds.

When he came up for air, Nayt asked, “Hey Peder, where were…”

Peder elbowed him in the ribs and shushed his friend, looking furtively around in a panic. 

Nayt nodded, but was determined to press him for the details later.

The three arrived at the bakery where Jayna worked, and she ran in and brought them both a box of creme muffins and other treats. He put his hand on his bulging stomach and grimaced. With all of this food, Nayt was never going to lose any weight.

Peder paused to savor the delicious smells while Nayt received a last round of tear-filled kisses. She handed them a final plate of goat cheese and marshmallows as a present, which Peder wolfed down as they walked. Nayt glared at him. The boy was always hungry.

Nayt was about to ask Peder where he had been when two guards came running up from the direction of the Old tower. They stopped in front of them, breathing heavily. "Peder, did you see any slavers?" the female one asked.

Nayt had seen them both around before, but couldn't remember their names. One was a tall dark-skinned man. The speaker was a shorter round woman, heavily muscled with a shield slung over her back. Of course Peder knew them, as he had been apprenticing with the guards for years.

"What?" Both boys asked in unison. Nayt was wondering if they were talking about his brother from last night. Maybe Salazaar was sticking around to see if Nayt had made it through the ceremony.

"Slavers. We saw two tall men in black cloaks over by the Old tower this morning, but they ran off. Old Kelter said he saw one last night, but we thought he was making things up. Now, I think maybe he was right.”

“Sorry, Gretchen, I haven’t.”

She continued, “Well, be careful, and let us know if you see any of those demonspawn. Those Iron landers have been causing trouble up North. And, aren’t you late for patrols?”

Both Peder and Nayt nodded their heads and the guards hurried off. Nayt avoided making eye contact with his friend.

Peder left Nayt at the Weavery with a friendly clap on the back. As Nayt walked in, he looked back to see Peder running towards the barracks. He was glancing back and forth, guiltily. Was Peder worried about being caught with a girl? Nayt shrugged.

About twenty weavers worked in the building, making all kinds of trade goods; like paper, longer lasting papyrus, or weapons and armor for the towns-guard. Everyone had their specialty, and the more popular weavers made a good profit from their skills. And they all applauded when he stepped in through the door.

Master Peyton gave him another proud hug, and then announced to everyone in the building that Nayt was the newest Journeyman Weaver.

The Peytons weren’t finished with the birthday gifts. “Here, young man, you’ve been wearing those old wooden sandals for years. The back of the Weavery is no place for exposed feet. A few of the others made you a pair of strong leather shoes. No more Weaving, Waxing, and Wheels for you! Dangerous tools for our newest Journeyman means you need to cover your toes! I’d bet a crown that you’ll drop one of the hammers within a week.”

Nayt blushed, rubbing his hands in embarrassment. The others all clapped again then got back to work while he changed into the new leather shoes. They were very nicely made, and strapped up to fully cover his ankles. They felt weird on his feet. He never had real shoes before.

Nayt decided to put his new permissions to work immediately, and asked Missus Peyton for enough materials and tools to build a shield. Though he was good at all three core areas of weaving, he liked the complexities of making wheels the best, and the sticky waxes that would burn clothes or skin the least. He was good at working with the seven major types of wood, and with each of the waxes that changed their properties and colors and feel. He was an expert at notching, and could attach any piece of wood to another without splitting the grains. He had been planning to build a new table for his mother, but realized that a shield might sell better if everyone was afraid of slavers.

Nayt wished he had that 10 crowns from his mother to start with but knew she would need it to pay off all of their debts. Or more likely, she would buy a few bottles of viez and pay off some of their debts.

He decided that he wanted to start fresh, and to fully cover his own success. Nayt had to borrow two crowns from Missus Peyton to pay for the materials, but thought he would be able to sell the shield at least for four crowns. Usually the Sabaa took half of any transaction as tax, but for goods made in town they only took half of the profits. The Weavery took another tenth. One crown for a day of work was still an excellent salary, especially for a young man of age 15.

Nayt thought briefly of trying to make something spectacular to show off his skill. He had studied everything he could about building, and read all of the Master’s books that he could. Nayt had even studied the theory of metal, and how one could theoretically use nails or screws to attach pieces of wood together to make taller buildings or big structures. Of course, no one ever would waste that much valuable metal on just a building. Not when you could use cheaper stone to have a similar effect.

He had watched all of the weavers for years, and was sure that he could build some of the more complex items like they did. They built windows, tables, houses, bridges. He dreamed of making even more wondrous creations, things that could fly or sculptures that would play music like what the Master made or were in the books Nayt borrowed. 

Remembering how Fiona had ignored him yesterday, Nayt decided to sit at the Journeyman bench instead of his usual seat next to her. She looked hurt when Nayt walked right by her Apprentice table, but he justified it because he really wanted to sit next to the bender machine and work with the new tools he had available. He absentmindedly scratched at his itchy ankles.

Nayt had never been allowed to use the bender before but he quickly got the hang of how it worked. Pretty simple, you stick soaked bamboo or hard wood in between the clamps, tighten them, and then apply pressure to bend them. Easy work once it was set, though he had to wait for an hour to switch the clamps. Just the right time to cut and lacquer the wood pieces for the middle part of the shield.

As Nayt was finishing up the first layer of protective wood, Dom again plopped down right next to him. Nayt was wary of talking with him especially with that warning from Saba Takkai earlier.

Dom whispered “congratulations” in his twitchy voice and then continued weaving ropes into a fishing net that he was making. Dom had two boards with hundreds of ropes stretched between then, and was pouring willowood sap over them. It was intended keep the ropes supple and also attract fish. Nayt noticed that Dom was using way too much wax.

"Dom, I think you have 3 parts of sap per line. You should only use half of that and dunk it in cold water right afterwards. That way it'll set faster and you can save your sap." Dom looked up at him, surprised. Then he smiled and gave a mock bow.

"Thank you, young master," Dom ironically said.

Nayt shrugged. Only promoted hours ago and he was already correcting his elders. His cheeks colored red and he rubbed his hands in embarrassment.

“Sorry, I was being rude. I just thought maybe you could save some money that way..."

Dom smiled again, showing crooked teeth. "You are right, I wasn't paying attention. I didn't realize you knew so much about waxes."

Nayt shrugged, and turned to his own work. "I like making things, and Master Peyton always made me work with waxes. I prefer solid things, though. Some day I want to be the most famous weaver in the world." He realized how prideful he sounded, and blushed again.

Dom stared at him for a moment, then nodded. "I believe you. I forget that there are people who just love their craft. Good for you."

Nayt glowed from the praise, and the two weavers continued working side by side for a time. Nayt realized that for the first time in days, he was relaxing. It was pleasant to just work and focus on your creations.

Nayt almost spoke up again when he saw what Dom was making next. After the nets Dom moved on to laces for leather shoes, which also made almost no profit and was something that apprentices could have done instead. Nayt saw that Dom had woven the nets perfectly without a single misplaced knot, and that the laces he was making were cut to the perfect size each time. If Dom was that good, why did he keep making the same boring things over and over?

It’s almost like he wanted to work on the least important creations. Could Dom be intentionally trying to avoid notice?

Nayt continued his work, and moved to putting the finishing touches on the small shield.

Nayt had noticed that many times his fingers seemed jittery, as if Dom had been drinking too much viez. He was about to ask when Dom sat bolt upright, and looked around the room in a panic. Dom pulled a knife from his belt.

A moment later, Nayt heard a shout from the front of the building and saw that Saba Takkai had burst through the front door. Two towns guardsmen had entered from the doors in the back of the building and were advancing towards them with their hardswords drawn. They were the same two that Nayt had just spoken with earlier, but this time they looked angry instead of polite. Nayt realized that he had been caught. He began breathing fast. The Testing had gone just too easy. He hung his head in shame.

Dom whispered to him. "Nayt, if you want to make things to change the world, then do so." He pulled a small coin from his pocket, and it pulsed with a soft blue light. Dom tossed it on the floor under the bench close to Nayt’s foot, then stood and stepped towards the door. Nayt cringed backwards. 

Dom turned towards Saba Takkai who was still on the other side of the room. Dom stood up straight and said with a strong, confident voice, "How did you know?"

Nayt flinched. Then it occurred to him that the advancing soldiers were here for Dom, and not for him. He almost cried with relief.

Saba Takkai pulled out the leather and clay helmet that Dom had been working on yesterday and put it on the table in front of the two weavers. Both guards stood behind Dom with their swords pointed at his throat. Saba Takkai took out a strong wooden club, and smashed it down on the helmet.

Saba Takkai glared at Dom. “This is a composite kevlar plastic, not clay. Did you think we wouldn’t know you were using forbidden technology?”

Instead of shattering like a normal helmet, the club broke. Everyone within the Weavery gasped. Magic. Dom must have used magic to make the helmet. Demon worship! Was Dom a demon worshipper this whole time? Was the thin crazy man routine just an act?

Nayt stared at Dom and realized the older boy stood much taller and prouder than Nayt had ever seen before. "I made that for my sister, she's just been sent out on her first patrol."

"Yes, I know. She showed it to me this morning." Dom visibly sagged at that. Turned in by his own sibling. 

Nayt was ashamed. He had actually been thinking of turning in his brother to the Sabaa as well.

Dom said, "I see. Well, it was nice knowing you all." He threw his hands down and an explosion of green smoke erupted around him. Dom disappeared from view, completely gone in the puff of smoke. The guards and Nayt gasped and shrunk back though he was surprised that he couldn’t smell anything. Green was the color of evil demons after all.

Saba Takkai was not as easily tricked. He drew back with the club and threw it across the room in the direction of Fiona. Nayt jumped in front of her and gritted his teeth. He heard a grunt and Dom suddenly appeared from thin air, stumbling.

Dom fell onto the workroom floor, clutching his shoulder. Nayt saw that the splintered wooden club had cut Dom’s shoulder then looked like it knocked him in the head. He was still and unmoving. Saba Takkai calmly stepped forward and checked Dom’s throat with two fingers. “He lives. Clean and bandage his wound then take him to be Retired.”

There was a collective gasp from everyone in the building. Being Retired so young was horrendous.

The head priest stood, looked right at Nayt, and nodded. Was the priest thanking him for not warning Dom? Nayt knew that Saba Takkai was mad at Dom, but never thought he would punish him like this. Or, that he was a demon worshipper. Too much was going on too fast for him to handle. Was it his fault that Dom would be killed?

There was no emotion on the priest’s face. "He was a Demon Worshiper, though sloppy. Clean this mess," he said to the guards, and walked out. Silence remained. And the twenty other weavers in the room just stared in shock.

Nayt looked down at the blood. He had never seen blood like that before, lying on a puddle on the ground. The guards quickly hoisted Dom and carried the condemned teenager outside. Nayt had been only two strides away, and blood had splashed on his new shoes.

Nayt looked down and saw the blue disk under the bench. He reached down and pocketed it and walked out without a word. Once outside, he took a deep breath and went home. His first day as a man did not end well. Nayt kept thinking that if Saba Takkai found out about his brother, Nayt would be next to die. And if Peder became a guard in a few days maybe Peder would be the one that would have to kill him.