It had been a terrible day. First, Nayt had faced his Testing, and then Fiona had watched the evil priest send Dom to his death. Dom had never meant harm to anyone and had been so nice to her after her brother was killed. She couldn’t get the image of Dom bleeding out of her mind. To be sent to be Retired was terrible. The ground around the Sept was always warm after a Retirement. There were stories of how the Sabaa or their servitors would burn people during the ceremony. She hoped they wouldn’t be awake during it, hoped that her brother, Leo, hadn’t been burned alive to please Sitta Naani’s evil god.

Missus Peyton shut the Weavery and a few guards ushered everyone to the center of town for a mandatory sermon.

The sermon was by Saba Eetho, the youngest of the four Saba in town. He and Sitta Aimee were still Journeymen priests working under the High Saba Takkai and Sitta Naani, who were much older. Fiona wanted to like Saba Eetho but knew that he would soon become just as evil as the older two Sabaa. All of the priests were corrupted by their evil Gods no matter how pure they started. How else could they so easily send children to their death?

Saba Eetho stood in front of the Sept between the statues of the Father and the Outsider. Any time there was a Demon Worshipper in town, a sermon was given between these two Gods. The last ‘Demon Worshipper’ found in town was her brother and she had run away during that sermon months ago. If she missed another one it would surely be noticed.

All seven of the village elders were here; the four Sabaa standing together, then Farmer Bauer, Master Kvothe the Innkeeper, and Guards-captain Wills. They only got together to judge on high crimes or deal with emergencies. Sitta Aimee and Saba Eetho both looked sad, while Sitta Naani and Saba Takkai looked angry and disappointed, staring accusingly at the swelling crowd. Fiona forced herself to show no expression, to mirror the faces around her. She didn’t want to be caught showing her true emotions.

Eetho stood and raised his arms wide in a symbol of peace and brotherhood. She had always liked Saba Eetho, and was saddened that he would be part of this murder. She reminded herself that no Sabaa can be trusted, not even the nice ones. He began the sermon.

“Friends, Family, it saddens me to let you know that one of our own has fallen. We have advanced him to the next stage of life to atone for his sins.” 

“Young Dom Beckenbauer has unfortunately been corrupted by the Demons. I know many of you barely knew Dom but he was a valuable member of our town. He was a weaver, a quiet boy, and always polite to his elders. His mother reached the age of Retirement a few years ago, and his father left to move to the Capitol right afterwards. Dom’s father has been notified and is grieving. If any of you know him and want to send your condolences, please leave a message with one of the Sabaa and we will pass it along to him. With the powers bestowed on us by the Teacher, we are here to serve.”

“What I want to talk about today is balance. We are a strong Pent with hundreds of brave and hard-working members. We are a family and are blessed by the Seven Gods. We are tempted and challenged constantly and must remain strong to avoid temptation and reach everlasting life. Ours is a life of balance. We must balance our work, our families, and our commitment to the Seven. We serve the Priest, who leads us.”

“We are ruled by the Authority and he manages our lands and ensures everyone is fed and supported. He is the emissary of the Father and we should take a moment to thank him for his wisdom as he rules these lands from the Capitol. The Authority controls the Servitors that serve us.”

Everyone in the crowd whispered a quite prayer of thanks. Saba Eetho then turned and gestured to a straw dummy that was on the ground in front of him. Normally, a Retiree was carried inside, but when it was a demon worshipper they used this dummy instead. Fiona couldn’t help wonder what they were doing to Dom’s real body inside. She hated this part.

The Retirement door opened from the side of the Sept; a large door unlike any of the others in town. It was 8 foot by 4 foot large metal plate, and would be worth a fortune if anyone dared to steal from a Sept. Everyone Retired was carried through this door and never seen again. Dom had been put in earlier and, since he was not here, the dummy would take his place.

Two angular figures emerged, draped in robes of black. They were tall and obviously not human, and moved in strong confident motions. They glided across the ground to the straw body in front of Saba Eetho. Everyone in the crowd shrank back from them, cowering in terror. Fiona grimaced. Everyone knew that the undead slaves of the Sabaa were the ones who burnt the bodies of the dead.

“Servitors, take this representation of our lost brother in for Retirement. By order of the Authority and the laws of colonization his credits are transferred to the holy church. His property is given to the community.”

Fiona wondered at that last statement. Whenever someone is Retired when they’re still alive, they are given the choice to transfer their belongings to their offspring or the church. What was the difference with transferring credits? Maybe it meant credit for anything good they had done in their life. She shrugged. Of course the greedy priests would loot the bodies of the dead.

The two shapes bent down, moving almost too quickly for Fiona to see clearly. They picked up the body and with an easy grace they moved in and the door closed magically with a shissh and a clack. The crowd held their breath.

“Bow your heads and pray for our lost brother.”

The crowd did, though less enthusiastically than they had for the Authority.

Saba Eetho continued his sermon. “Our town of Weaver's Launch is one of the stronger Pents in this side of the Kingdom. While there are 35 of us total, ours is the one focused on the making of things. We are the Weavers and the Farmers. We make items and we make food, both of which support our neighboring cities and towns. They rely on us and we have an obligation to do our best in everything. We serve the Maker.”

“Even though we are threatened by those godless savages in the Iron Lands, we keep our balance and our faith. Many of you remember the wars of fifty years ago, and the skirmishes since. It is for this reason that we keep vigilant, and keep our mental and physical defenses strong.

“Young Dom was a builder, but he was compelled to build more. He wanted to be more than the Maker desired. He was tempted by the Demons to make more powerful items, to build better tools. Even though he did it to help out our town, to make better tools for us. He did not realize how seductive that can be, that the demons start by seeming good but quickly turn to evil.”

Saba Eetho was finishing his sermon. He looked even more sad now that he had finished his long speech.

“Long ago our ancestors fought with the demons and won. They wanted to live their lives in peace. The Father and the other Gods promised to allow us to live as we wished and to keep us safe. The Banker made a deal with our ancestors, and so all of the Gods watch over us.”

Saba Takkai stepped forward and put his arm on Saba Eetho’s shoulder. He pushed the younger man to the side and spoke to the crowd in his unnaturally loud voice.

“Ours is a culture of balance. This town has lasted thousands of years. These houses and buildings are thousands of years old and are constantly repaired with our own work and efforts. We do not need to grow beyond that. We do not need new ideas or to make ‘better’ inventions. We have everything that we need, and should enjoy it. If a demon appears to you, do as the Searcher demanded, and come to one of the Sabaa. We will fix it.”

Saba Takkai pointed to the two minor suns that were visible on the horizon. The Torch burned and broiled, looking angry. The Candle flickered next to it, barely visible in the bright day. All three suns were up and Fiona felt hot and uncomfortable under their glare.

“Look at the Torch. It swells with anger. It is already larger than a few years ago, our punishment from the Gods. We were threatened by the evil of the Torch and the Candle but decided to face our fears and live despite their threat. We vanquished the demons to the Torch where they taunt us and hate us. We are stronger and they despise that. If you give in to the demons, then our people will be unable to escape the anger of the Torch. It is that simple. Turn them down and we will live in everlasting glory. Amen.”

Fiona looked to the rest of the town. They were all bowed in reverence. Just like sheep. Some were smiling, some were crying. Many faces, many different skin colors. All part of a strong community of believers. She noticed that Sitta Naani was looking at her. She quickly copied the behavior of the other worshippers and bowed her head as well.

She felt so alien, so misunderstood. She didn’t believe any of what the Sabaa said. They killed her brother and they kept the rest of the town under their control. What did demons have to do with the suns? It made no sense.

After the sermon ended, many of the townspeople began talking and hugging each other. She couldn’t stand it, and walked away when she thought not of the Sabaa would notice. She hated the blustering and prayer, especially when it was inspired by fear. She made sure no one was following her, then headed North. She didn’t want to hear anymore about Testings or Retirement or sins or Saba.

Her own Testing was only a few months away. Would she be able to face it? If they had killed her brother, why wouldn’t they kill her as well?

Maybe she could run away to Cat’s Cradle or Mill Hill or another Pent and do her Testing there. Maybe she could go even farther into the Iron Lands to the North where they didn’t have Testings. The rumors were that there were no laws up there and definitely no big towns like the Pents and Cents of her homeland. It was a wonderful daydream, living on her own as a huntress in the woods. If she lived alone up there she wouldn’t have to go through the Testing each year. She could be free. But, she would miss her mother and father and Penelope. What would they do without her?

She hated to look at Saba Takkai or Sitta Naani and the thought of them Testing her froze her spine. Fiona kept picturing that it was her brother Leo that he had killed today instead of Dom at the Weavery. She thought more of running to the Iron Lands in the North and realized the error of her plans. She would have to stay along the river if she did run away, all the towns to the North were known to be slavers and put people they found into shackles to work their dangerous mines. It was a different kind of threat but almost preferable to this annoying town with the bullying farmers and her sick parents and stupid school and evil priests.

She stopped by home to check on her sleeping parents. Fiona was full of nervous energy and didn’t want to rot in her dark and stuffy house with her sick parents, but felt lonely without them. She put a cool wet cloth on her mothers forehead, and kissed her father goodbye. She needed to go outside, to clear her head. She at on a muddy stump and pat Penelope who happily accepted a few apple cores that she’s been carrying in one of her many pockets. It made her smile, and she began walking up towards the North.

Fiona passed a few farm hands heading into the fields who laughingly pointed at her feeding the pig. She turned west to avoid the Bauers and their massive farm, and decided instead to head into the forest for a peaceful stroll. She had her bow so might as well get in some hunting.

She hiked aimlessly and found herself walking back along the stream that she had floated down the day of the Bugbear attack.

After another hour of hiking, Fiona was at the spot where she had entered the stream, close to the bugbear’s area. She kept walking, alert with her bow drawn in case she heard for any threatening sounds. She had passed a few deer tracks but hadn’t seen any. Maybe she could spend more time tracking one down on her way back. A pack of white-faced monkeys were watching her from a large oak tree. They’d been following her, but stopped when she left the green Erdtree grove and entered into an area full of the purple Faetrees. Monkeys didn’t seem to like those larger trees with their smooth branches that were hard to grip onto. She tended to agree with them.

She saw some shrike tracks in the underbrush and made sure to keep clear of the dangerous beasts. Maybe this wasn’t the best place to hunt; there was no telling what would come at the smell of fresh meat.

She was about to head home but saw movement up stream. Something big. Fiona ducked to the side into a bush, pulling her bow from her shoulder. Her danger sense wasn’t vibrating which meant she probably hadn’t been seen or wasn’t in any danger.

Crouching, Fiona watched as Farmer Bauer came into view, rowing his empty raft back towards town. Empty, she repeated to herself. Where did all the food go? And, if he sold it, where were the barrels? The man never gives up a penny. There's no way he would give away valuable barrels.

Within moments, he was gone downstream. She made sure he was completely out of sight before coming out from behind the bush. It was puzzling. She started walking home making sure to keep an ear out for bugbears or any of the other predators of the forest.

The only thing farther up north would be Cat's Cradle, a 100-person cent. It was a few hours hike away. She'd never been there, but her father had a few times and to the slaver towns up beyond that. They were said to kidnap people and force them to mine for metal in the hills. The slavers were rich but no one would ever trade with them and the Sabaa had ordered everyone to fight them if they were ever seen. Their lands were called the Iron Hills and were technically a different country than theirs, not run by the Authority. She had no use for countries and was sure the Authority and his church full of Sabaa didn't care about people like her, so figured it didn't matter much.

Could Farmer Bauer be taking food to the slavers? There would be no use taking food to Cat's Cradle when the church controlled the prices there. Could he be illegally dealing with the evil men even farther north? Her neighbor couldn’t be a slaver, could he? Even if he had somehow found a stream that went up to Cat’s Cradle, was he using it to avoid paying the hefty taxes of the Sabaa? She had to get to the bottom of this.