The next day followed in a blur. Early in the morning, Nayt took a walk to the Old tower. He had found a piece of stone with a small hole in it, and hid the coin from Dom there. He didn’t want to be caught with it, or even spend too much time looking at it; it was small and had some very tiny metal lines across the face. Kind of like a crown coin, but out of metal. It was beautiful, but dangerous.

Nayt went back to the Weavery in the morning, and the blood was gone. He couldn't stop looking at the spot, though.

Nayt tried to speak with Peder about the incident, but Peder was avoiding him for some reason. Not that Nayt had much time. Nayt had thought he would have much more free time without having to go to school and do exercises, but he found himself in the Weavery for 12 hours, furiously working on building shields. Most of the other weavers only worked six to eight hours a day, depending on how much profit they wanted to make and if they had found customers. Most of them took a long lunch break at the foodsellers in the market, or stop by the Inn for drinks. Nayt had promised himself that he would become the best weaver, and realized he had too much to learn to waste all of his free time. Candles cost money at home, so it made more sense to stay here and work as long as he could.

Nayt was exhausted, but happy. Hammering and cutting all day was hard work and his arms felt like they would fall off. As a student, he hadn’t ever worked even half as long. And, before he always had the Master telling him what to make. Now, it was completely up to him. If you didn’t make things people would buy, you didn’t get paid.

Most of the shields that their towns-guards used were large and cumbersome. Nayt had known from talking with Peder about his guard apprenticeship that many of them hated carrying the large shields because they couldn't run or use their weapons easily.

For months, Nayt had been thinking of making a smaller shield - one that fit over your left arm, and you could fasten on your back. Nayt had made two of them and tried to show them to the guards, but they just laughed at the designs. It was very frustrating, and Saba Eetho’s sermon yesterday didn’t help. No one was willing to try new things, especially from the ‘corruptible’ Weavers. No customers plus the constant fear that the Sabaa would discover Salazaar’s plans added extra stress.

Nayt now owed Master Peyton 4 crowns for the supplies, and so far there was no interest in purchasing the shields. Maybe Nayt wouldn’t make it as a master builder after all. Should he just make wooden wagon wheels or normal things like everyone else?

The day after Nayt went through his Testing, his mother was in a very happy mood. She had used the new money to buy a nice dinner and another bottle of viez. Everything was delicious, and there was more deer meat than either of them was used to. Nayt talked through his plans of building new shields, and how rich they would soon become. 

His mother had been one of the town’s guards years ago, and gave him suggestions on how to make the straps so that they were tight, but didn't cut off circulation. It was one of their happiest nights in years, and Nayt was sorry when he ruined it.

"Tell me about Salazaar, mother. Why did he leave?"

She immediately became quiet. She drained her large cup of viez, then poured herself another. She said, "He was such a good boy growing up. Always interested in everything, and always asking questions. He loved medicine and loved being a Saba. He and your father would... play for hours. They were both so tall." Her voice had become strained.

"Did I ever tell you Salazaar raised you the first week? It was during the war with the slavers to the North. Your father was out on a weeklong patrol with the Sabaa, and you were born a month earlier than we thought. I couldn't get out of bed for a week, and was sick and delirious. He was only 15, but he cleaned you and changed you and fed you. 

“Then, Peder was born a few days later and his mother was also sick. So Salazaar took care of both of you for days until your fathers returned. It was such a hard time with the war with the Iron North. But Salazaar was so strong for all of us.“. Her voice was so proud, but also sad. Nayt hadn't known any of this before.

"When you were six, things changed. He had become a Saba working for Takkai. Mostly, he did small jobs like teach classes and run the simple ceremonies round town. But he was becoming more distant, and always going for long walks every night over to the Old tower. 

“Sometimes at night, I'd hear him talking to himself. Now, I guess the demons must have been inside him him for years. One night when you and your father were out playing, Saba Takkai showed up in our house and stabbed Salazaar right here at this table. But, the knife went right through him and he kept on sitting like nothing happened. It was a ghost of him, not really my son.

“The ghost just disappeared. Right in front of our faces. Takkai was so mad, he made your father come with him and they went out to find Salazaar with some other guards. Your father was so tall and strong." Her voice was going hoarse and she finished off another glass of the apple wine.

She coughed, throat dry. She looked up to see Nayt was staring, and she looked away. His legs were shaking under the table. He had never heard any of this before. Had Salazaar killed their father? Nayt would make him pay if so.

"That's the last I ever saw of either of them. Takkai came back alone and said they both died fighting each other." Tears were streaming down her cheeks. "I'm sorry. I need to go to bed." She stood up, and went to her small room. Nayt hadn't meant to ruin dinner.

Nayt cleaned up their dishes and ate the rest of the meat, though he wasn't really hungry anymore. Nayt realized how old and cracked the two plates were that they owned, and he resolved to make some new ones at the Weavery when he sold his shields. And maybe some new cups.

The next day at the Weavery was more of the same. Nayt made one more shield, and then spent the afternoon showing every guard that he could find how they worked. Not much interest, though old Kelter thought they were much nicer that his current heavy one. Thinking back to how the other guards had dismissed Kelter’s opinions, Nayt despaired of ever selling the shields. Maybe he should have made some lanterns, just in case the shields didn’t sell. Would he ever make back his money?

Even though he hadn’t been the instant success he dreamed of, the Weavery was still his favorite place in town. Surprisingly it was Fiona who loved his shield design. She thought they would be perfect for defending against a bugbear. As they talked, she seemed to relax and grow less anxious around him, like the old Fiona from before Leo's death. He was always amazed how tough the small girl was. She wasn’t afraid of anything.

Jayna invited him to the bakery where she worked, and asked him to bring two lemons. While they talked, she squeezed lemons into a ceramic pot of hot milk, and stirred it while it was over a low flame. He watched, as a foam appeared on top, which she called the curd. She let it cool, then poured it through a sack cloth and wrapped it, and put it in a hole that was dug in the ground. The process took about fifteen minutes.

It was fascinating watching her work. She had very delicate, precise movements which were very different from her fiery temperament. “What was that?” he asked?

“Oh? I’m making Paneer. You know, the cheese?”

“Yeah, I know it. My mom calls it cottage cheese. How long until it’s ready?”

“That much? Done in an hour. I'm making it for you."

“Really? Isn’t Paneer expensive?”

“Yeah, we sell it for 20 pfennigs.”

Nayt whistled, amazed. “Wait, you mean 15 minutes of work, and a few lemons and milk will turn into 20 pfennigs?”

“Yeah, don’t tell anyone how easy it is, or we’d be out of business. I mean, stirring it all takes forever, but it's nice and calming.”

“Jayna, that’s amazing. It takes me hours in the Weavery to make something that would sell for that much.”

She glowed at the compliments, smiling and kissing him deeply. 

"Where do you get the sugar from?" she was moving on to crush apples and add sugar to turn them into applesauce.

She spoke as she mushed apples. "From Heartland; a Pent down South that ships barrels to us each month. The flour is all from Bauer and Alte here in town.”

Baking was more physically demanding than he had expected; all that stirring of milk and churning of butter took so long. They needed some kind of machine to automate the work. If only the Sabaa weren’t so dead-set against progress. Still, it was fun thinking about what he could make to help her out.

The next day, Jayna stopped by to see him in the Weavery a few times during the day, and Fiona always found a reason to go work outside. Jayna's kissing didn't improve much, it just became more insistent.

As Missus Peyton was handing Nayt another set of wood pieces and waxes for a shield, she asked Nayt if he knew how Peder was doing. Nayt hadn't seen him much, especially because Peder still had classes in the morning. She thought he seemed very depressed and was worried about his Testing that was coming up. She asked him to pray to the Maker for his protection, which Nayt promised to do so.

Nayt was worried, too. He really wanted to talk with Peder, and wondered if he could tell him more details about Dom and his magic coin. Nayt really didn’t want to say anything out loud though. The Sabaa’s magic could hear whispers nearly anywhere, and they always seemed to know if you said something forbidden. Salazaar had said they couldn’t hear inside homes or Old buildings, but Nayt wasn’t so sure he trusted the man completely.

Peder and all of the towns-guard were out doing increased patrols, watching for slavers in the afternoon, so Peder and Nayt didn’t have a chance to meet up.

The night before Peder’s Testing, Nayt finished a subdued dinner with his mother and went for a walk. He stayed away from the Old tower, and instead walked East passed the stables and along the Harper River. He loved the buildings in this section of town, all old carved stone that had been refurbished over and over. There were two small boats docked at town, one trader vessel and one with a handful of passengers staying the night in the inn. Nayt always liked looking at the boats, seeing how they had been made and admiring the complex ship rigging and ropes. He kept walking, thinking he would walk through the Weaver’s grove where many of the trees were grown that were used for wood in the weavery.

The lapping waves from the river calmed him, and helped his mind relax. Nayt stretched, relieving the cramped muscles in his arms and shoulders. Hammering and bending hard wood was much tougher than it looked. He asked one of the guards where Peder was, and they told him Peder was on a patrol with his boss Gretchen out to the East. Nayt decided to go walking in that direction, maybe he would find his friend and have a chance to talk to him.

Nayt was half a mile outside of town when he heard a tink from the rocks to his right. His stomach clenched in fear. Nayt pulled out the knife he had taken from Dom and crouched, wishing he had brought one of his own shields for protection from slaver attacks. 

A tall dark form materialized from the darkness a few steps in front of him. His brother. Salazaar. The dead Salazaar who had been a demon worshipper. Not good.

Nayt was out in the open, pretty close to town. He had been worried sick over the last few days over the stress from losing money, and fear from being caught by the Sabaa for faking his Testing. Worst, he had never had a chance to tell Peder that Salazaar had hinted that he would ‘keep Nayt and Peder safe’. Was Salazaar back looking to interfere with Peder’s test? Was Peder about to be grabbed? Nayt couldn’t let that happen. And, Salazaar had killed their father. He must be insane. Nayt couldn’t trust him.

Nayt stared at Salazaar, then made a split-second decision. He shouted in alarm, then turned around and ran back towards town, screaming for the guards that an evil wizard was chasing him.