Nayt heard his brother curse then begin running behind him. He was taller and strong, though Nayt’s pounding heart gave him an extra burst of speed. Nayt ran like the devil himself was chasing him, and wondered if that was true. After only a minute, Nayt’s lungs hurt and he couldn’t control his breathing. He could almost feel Salazaar right behind him, catching up. 

It was not as dark as the previous night. The two Loving Sisters were out high in the sky, and one of the Angry Brothers was low on the horizon; the sun named Candle. It was a bad omen. Just like with him and his own Angry Brother?

Just as his brother reached out and grabbed his shoulder, Nayt saw a torch on the road ahead running towards his shouts. Nayt saw a large faetree next to the road snap and fall in front of them, blocking their way. Nayt skid to a halt and his brother barreled into him, knocking the knife from his hand. 

The two tumbled to the ground, and Salazaar reached his large arms around Peder, pinning him to the ground.

Salazaar was breathing hard and said, “I guess we’ll do things the hard way.”

He picked Nayt up. Nayt struggled, hoping to make him trip over the fallen tree. Salazaar stepped right through a tree branch and the tree disappeared. Magic. Nayt stared at the illusion that looked so real, even in the dark. Could Salazaar make anything appear at will?

Nayt couldn’t breathe, but tried to fight back. Salazaar pinned Nayt with his knees, then pulled a piece of cloth over Nayt’s mouth. With the gag, Nayt couldn't shout. He tied Nayt’s hands tightly with another length of rope and slung him over a shoulder. Nayt struggled, but could barely move.

Salazaar carried his brother off to North, running North close to Farmer Bauer’s fields and into the forest in that direction. He was panting. Nayt looked back helplessly, and saw that the guards had arrived at the spot where the fallen tree had been, and were looking around. One short guard and one tall one, but he couldn’t see their features to know who it was. Why couldn’t they see them? The guards were carrying torches, and were standing in a pool of light. Nayt and his brother were in darkness, but should still be noticeable. Nayt tried to make some sounds, but they didn’t seem to notice.

Salazaar’s shoulder was digging into Nayt’s stomach, and it jarred him with every step. Nayt gave up struggling once they passed through a line of trees. They were so close. Salazaar grunted again as they climbed a small hill.

Nayt was about to start crying when a torch started moving in their direction! His hopes rose, and he tried to shout again. The short guard had seen them, and was pointing in their direction. Their outline must be visible against the stars behind them.

The two guards came running; only a few hundred paces behind the brothers. Salazaar hadn't looked back, but cursed and picked up his pace. The trees and underbrush were getting dense. Maybe Salazaar would get tied and drop him, and Nayt could make his escape.

The guards made it into the forest closing in on the fugitives. 

Salazaar must have decided that he would be caught. He cursed, and put Nayt down next to a thick noughat tree. Nayt fought, but his brother looped another rope around him and the trunk. Nayt struggled, but couldn’t free himself from the bonds. He couldn’t move anything except his neck. 

Nayt turned towards the approaching guards, straining to get himself free. So close!

Nayt saw that one of the guards was Peder, and another the short thick lady from the other day. Gretchen, her name was. Gretchen was holding the torch, and both had their hardswords drawn. She was saying something about slavers, and searching about intently. They were so close, but Nayt was so firmly tied that he couldn’t do anything. Nayt needed to warn Peder, or Salazaar would grab him or possibly kill Gretchen. What could he do? He needed to think.

Salazar concentrated, and Nayt saw a tree appear where he was standing. His own vision darkened, and Nayt seemed to be peering through the bark of a tree. Salazaar had made the illusion of a tree appear around him. No one would see them through his magic.

Nayt knocked his head back into the bark, hoping to alert them to his presence. The female guard must have heard something. She turned towards him, coming so close that she almost stepped on the boy. He struggled to make more noise, to reach out for her, but she didn’t hear him. He tried humming or grunting, but he could see Salazaar pointing out a hand towards them, wiggling his fingers. Was he casting the spell to cover up Nayt’s sounds? It seemed so, because Gretchen didn’t seem to hear anything he was doing.

Shouts rang out back from the entry to the forest, and everyone turned to look in that direction. Two men in dark cloaks carrying Nayt on his shoulders could be clearly seen running in the other direction. Nayt could tell they were much brighter than they should be. And they were making a lot of noise. More of Salazaars illusions, his magic.

The woman guard took off running towards the figures. Peder lingered behind, moving slower. When she was too far away to see him, Salazaar let the illusion fade. Peder nodded towards the two brothers, raised his hand in greeting, and then turned to follow the other guard. Had Salazaar’s magic took control of his mind?

Nayt was dumbfounded that Peder wouldn't help him. Peder had his Testing tomorrow, and Nayt couldn't believe that his friend would allow a demon worshipper to get away. Especially right before he had to face the wrathful Saba Takkai. The priest would kill all of them if he found out. Was Peder somehow in league with demon worshippers? Would he fail his Testing and be Retired and put to death?

At first, Salazaar carried him further North. After about a mile, he put Nayt down and pushed him ahead. Nayt struggled and pushed, and tried arguing to no avail. He couldn’t make many good points with the gag still in his mouth. Nayt had ripped off a few pieces of his shirt and tossed them along the path, hoping that the guards might be able to track their progress.

It was a long trek through the woods, but after two hours Nayt was placed in the back of a cart being pulled by a tall horse. It was dark, but he could clearly see the horse’s outline and hear it galloping along the road. It was a powerful animal, and never seemed to tire. It must be some magical creature, and he thought the stables in town would love to have horses with that amount of strength. There was something weird about it, though he couldn’t quite figure out what.

During the long trip, Nayt struggled and pulled, but was only exhausting himself and chafing his wrists. 

Nayt kept rehashing in his mind what he knew from school, that wizards sold their souls to the green demons and have been turned to serve evil. He wondered if he would survive through the night, or if the Sabaa would come to save him. Sabaa always seemed to be able to locate anyone that ran away or got lost.

Salazaar drove them for two more hours and we stopped by a lake. By the stars, Nayt estimated they had gone mostly north of town, farther than he had ever been before. Horses didn’t move that fast, but it felt like they were flying over the ground. It was hard to really get a sense in the dark, and Nayt felt disoriented from the running and where his head was slammed into the noughat tree.

Nayt’s arms were asleep and when Salazaar finally loosened the ropes they burned like fire. He carried his younger brother in through a dense grove of bushes. Nayt looked around groggily, then harrumpfed when he saw that they had suddenly stepped into a house. They had entered a dark doorway that couldn’t be seen from outside. It must have been hidden in the hillside.

Nayt was drifting away, falling asleep from exhaustion. As he was being carried, Nayt noticed that Salazaar wore a metal bracelet, intricately carved around his wrist. It was beautiful, and more complexly made than anything he had ever seen before. His eyes were blurring.

Nayt shook his head trying to wake himself. He glanced up, looking into a room with an open door. Three people were lying on the floor, obviously dead. One had his head cut off, the others were brown and green with old age. He blinked at them. Nayt had never seen a dead person before.

Why wasn’t he screaming? He should be screaming. He was too tired to scream, to shocked at this unreal experience. Too overwhelmed. Why had his brother brought him here? Just to kill him like he had the owners of this house?

Salazaar carefully set Nayt down in a bright room where he was tied to a solid chair and forced to drink a glass of water. Nayt was so distracted admiring the perfectly smooth circle of glass that he had drank all of the water before he noticed the gummy taste. His thoughts grew dim, and he felt his eyes close despite his best efforts. He fell asleep wondering if Salazaar was going to sacrifice him to the demons like in the stories.