Every morning Fiona walked to what she was now calling Bugbear Stream, hoping to catch Farmer Bauer in the middle of some crime. It became a ritual to take care of her parents, feed Penelope with slop, then go looking for the farmer.

The only annoying part of her day was that her mother insisted that she wear a hat when outside in the bright sun. Her dark skin didn’t burn, but got very dry and chapped when she was outside for too long. The only hat they had was one of her father’s old black floppy work hats, and made her look ridiculous. She’d wear it each day when leaving, then stow it in her backpack as soon as she got out of sight of the cabin. She couldn’t imagine herself catching the evil Farmer while wearing such a thing.

The more she considered things, the more she was convinced that the rich old farmer was dealing with the evil slavers that were up north of Cat's Cradle. They might have been the ones who were sneaking around town and had taken Nayt. Fiona had overheard Gretchen tell Saba Eetho everything that happened, then later pretended to be picking flowers when Saba Takkai came storming up demanding that Peder be punished for losing track of the enemies. He said something about his magic not working with only four people outside of town, that he needed one more to see what happened.

Could the Sabaa only see and hear things when there were enough people around? It cheered her to think that maybe she was safe from spying when she was alone in the forest.

As Fiona hiked, she daydreamed of rescuing Nayt and showing Peder that she could save someone even when Peder had let the enemy get away. She could be tougher that he was.

Fiona had found a more direct route through the farm fields and first area north of the old tower, and set rabbit snares along trails each morning and went back to retrieve them at night. The game was thick in these woods, as most people stayed as far from the Old tower as possible.

It was a bright day, with all three suns showing in the sky. The Torch was broiling angry, and the Candle was between it and the Sun. Both moons were also visible low in the horizon, one on each side of the sky. The pattern was called the Hunter’s Cross, and should be extremely lucky for risk-takers and reckless youths. She grinned. She guessed she fit both of those categories, though her mother would be ashamed to hear of such un-ladylike behavior. Well, her mother’s pursuit of lady-like behavior hadn’t gotten her very far in life. She loved her mother, but always felt like her mom just wanted to force her to be like one of the stupid girls in town that just did everything the Sabaa told them to. 

She had asked around at the market, and no one remembered seeing Bauer during the day of Nayt's Testing. Had he not taken his raft there after all? What had he done with so much food? She wondered if the two things were related. Hadn't she seen the farmer on this same stream the day of her brother's Testing? Could he be frequently using this stream? The rope she found that day of the bugbear attack must have fallen from the farmer's empty raft.

Could Bauer have been using the Testing as cover? He would know that the Sabaa would be very busy and not looking for law-breakers. If she were committing a crime, she would want to do it when they wouldn't be likely to use their magic to discover it.

Fiona embraced the spirit of recklessness and investigated. What else would she do? School? Not on a day as nice as this. The stupid Sabaa never taught anything valuable, never taught anything about real life. She had followed the stream to its end twice now, and saw nothing that would indicate slavers. Any farther, and the raft would not be able to go over the large rocks. It was all hills beyond that point leading towards the North. There must have been a meeting point between the end of the stream and where she had last seen the farmer, about half a mile away.

Her father had always wondered where Bauer's money came from. He was by far the richest man in town, and always had extra fresh food to sell during the long winters. There were thirteen months, and the freezing winter of the thirteenth month always was the hardest. Each year, he somehow had food to sell that last month, and got richer and richer. It was so bad that now every trading ship that came to down bought half of their goods from him. 

Maybe his extra money came from dealing with slavers and the other bandits up north? His profit might come from avoiding the 50% of taxes that the Sept charged on every sale in town. If he knew who had kidnapped Nayt, she wanted to find out. 

Fiona dreamed of someday living in his giant farm house, of servants serving her dinner. She would still hunt her own meat, of course. Maybe if she caught him dealing with slavers, they would give her the Bauer house as a reward?

Ha, fat chance.

Walking back, she stopped on a small flat area next to the stream. It was one of the only areas flat enough to pull a raft up onto. Nothing incriminating and no signs of more rope.

Bending over to fill her water skin, she found something. Evidence? She was convinced it was what she was looking for. The rocks at the edge of the stream were scuffed, and had fragments of wood scraped onto them. Just like if a raft had been drug out of the water it this area. Someone had docked a raft here in this small clearing.

She was right! He must be a slaver! Or illegally selling food to them, at least. If she told the Sabaa, they would probably punish him with premature Retirement. She would get a new house! Then she remembered that it would probably all go to their son Zeke. Maybe she could incriminate him as well? The guy was creepy, and always throwing trash on her porch.

She looked around, but felt confident that she was safe. Knowing that she would feel a buzzing at any sense of danger, she continued to examine the ground. Now that she knew what to look for, she saw grooves in the mid where it looked like something had been dragged. After a few strides of flat pebbles, a steep rocky hill rose above her. A flat cliff face rose out of the ground. It was twice her height, and ran parallel to the stream.

She was even more curious. There would be no way to move the barrels out of here. She thought the bandits would have had a wagon, as the barrels were too large to haul on a mule or horse. Weren't they? She just needed to collect more evidence.

Fiona sat on a rock, and washed her face from the heat of the day. She picked up a handful of pebbles, thinking furiously. What could the evil farmer have done with all the food? It couldn't just disappear. It would have taken a score of men to carry that much off, and that would have created enough footprints to leave a trail. It couldn’t just disappear.

She had looked everywhere they could possibly be. She couldn’t just call Nayt’s name, could she? Maybe he was being held captive nearby and would hear her coming to rescue him. Or maybe Bauer and his slaver friends would hear her and capture her, too. No, it was too risky.

Fiona sighed in frustration, skimming pebbles down the stream. Maybe another boat had picked the barrels up? But where would it have gone? Back down stream to another town? That didn't make much sense, as Bauer could just have done that himself; no need for the secrecy. Or, he would have transferred it closer to the main river, not taken such a long detour. 

She threw the last of her pebbles against the wall, and stood up to leave. She heard a thunk, and turned to stare. The rock wall had made a very weird sound after the pebble hit it. Could it be somehow hollow?

She went to examine it, looking for holes or hiding places. It looked like a perfectly solid rock wall. Nothing. This entire pursuit was annoying, a total waste of her time. She had likely imagined the whole thing. As she stood next to the rock, she felt the hair on her arm stick up. It tingled slightly. She put her had on the stone wall to touch it and see why she was tingling, and it went right through.

Off balance, she fell straight into the rock.