Nayt woke in a large comfortable bed that was completely unlike the straw mattress he had at home. 

It was soft and cool, and felt like soft moss. Looking down, Nayt realized that he had gotten the blanket quite dirty from the mud and grime that had been on his clothing.

Nayt stretched, and felt more rested than he had ever been in his life. Studying the room, he saw that the mattress was a perfect rectangle, and a window was cut into the wall, with the side boards straighter than any piece of wood that he had seen. It was painted in some sort of white color that softened the lines of the grain beyond he would have been able to do.

It was amazing, and he stared at the ceiling, which seemed to be held up without any supporting wood beams. He couldn’t imagine how the walls were strong enough to hold a ceiling without any supports, and how perfect the angles were. It was a masterpiece of construction.

Nayt focused on how straight the doorway was, and the precision of the angles and wood that had assembled it. It was completely unlike the doors that Nayt was used to back home, that were tied together from log planks and usually had gaps where they didn't align perfectly. He reached out his hand to touch the wall and found it to be almost perfectly smooth, unlike any wood he had felt before.

The high construction quality of this simple room showed more of Salazaar’s magical power that any of the illusions he made the night before.

Nayt realized that Salazaar was standing in a doorway, tall and imposing. 

"Do I need to tie you up again, or will you eat breakfast?" Nayt shrugged sullenly, and allowed himself to be led down a hallway. He left his new shoes in his room, not wanting to dirty the floors with mud.

They entered a bright room with a table in the middle and large white boxes all around the sides. It must be the kitchen. His mouth watered at the delicious smells and Nayt realized that he was famished. Salazaar touched one of the white boxes and it made a beeping sound. A few seconds later, he took a plate of food from it and placed it before his younger brother.

It was the most amazing thing Nayt had ever eaten. If this is how evil wizards eat, Nayt could understand the temptation to join their side. Salazaar had given him a plate of fried eggs flipped in half full of vegetables and with cheese melted on top of it. It was marvelous, and Nayt marveled that he had never seen or tasted an egg this good before. 

How could Salazaar have made the egg cook so perfectly? Nayt’s mother had a clay pot that she would use to fry eggs inside, but they either burned or ripped into tiny pieces. This was a work of art. Looking over, Nayt saw a black metal platter and a large metal knife lying on the counter. So much metal, just sitting there. It would be worth hundreds of crowns.

Nayt finally realized how much power and wealth these evil wizards had. He was in the den of evil, and it seemed the only way out of here was to talk his way out. "You have an amazing house."

Salazaar laughed, and then said, "Oh, this isn't my home. Just a rest stop. Something I set up years ago for when I come to my kingdom. And, I’m afraid it will be gone by tomorrow.”

Nayt couldn’t quite understand what he meant, but it was obvious his brother was a little crazy if he though of himself as a king. He remembered the dead bodies from last night. Was he denying killing those people and taking their house? Nayt just pushed forward with the conversation. “What do you want from me? You're going to sacrifice me to the green demons, aren't you?"

Salazaar chuckled again. Nayt was really entertaining him, it seemed. "Nayt, I've brought you here to keep you alive. It's your birthday today, and I need to help you through the Testing. And, since you slept in all morning, that starts in 20 minutes."

Nayt scoffed. The demons must really have messed with his brother’s mind. "No, mine was three days ago, remember? Today is Peder's birthday. It’s his Testing."

Salazaar went to a different white box and pulled out a glass full of the juice of the orange and handed it to his younger brother. It was cold! He was so surprised that Nayt almost dropped it. Like the food, the juice was delicious.

Nayt guess he should get used to this weird magic house that isn't a house. Looking around, Nayt saw other wonders like globes of fire that didn't flicker. And, that amazing metal knife. Then, his wandering mind registered what Salazaar had said.

"Wait, what?"

His brother paused, and then said it again. "Today is your real birthday. Everyone thinks that you and Peder have each other's birthdays."

"That's stupid. Why would they think that?"

"Because I switched you two when you were babies." In shock, Nayt dropped the glass of orange juice, which shattered on the floor.

Nayt stared at his fake brother for a few minutes, trying to work it out in his head. It made sense, in a twisted way. 

Both of his parents and Salazaar were so much taller than him. Nayt spent most of his time with the shorter Peytons, and they had always been much more affectionate than his mother was. 

Salazaar waited patiently, watching him. Nayt calmly went back to eating, and then hurled his plate at the wizard’s face.

Startled, the demon worshipper jumped back, a bruise forming on his cheek.

Nayt felt tears jump to his eyes. He had to get out of here. Nayt jumped up, and then stumbled at a pain in his foot. He lost his balance, and stumbled towards the counter. While Salazaar was scraping egg from his face, Nayt grabbed the large knife and hid it down his pant leg. He almost cut himself, but turned the blade so it was lodged in the seam of his leather pants.

Nayt ran for the door, but suddenly it closed in front of him.

Thinking it was another of Salazaar's illusions, Nayt barreled through it. He passed through the solid door without damage, and ran down the hallway. Nayt saw a door that looked like it was the main entrance that led outside. He banged his shoulder on it, hoping that it was another illusion. It wasn’t, and Nayt could see no way to open the heavy door.

Nayt turned and saw the wizard behind him. He was cornered in the hallway. He would have to fight.

Salazaar looked at the younger man, his hands raised. It reminded Nayt of the sign his mother made when she wanted quiet. "Nayt, listen to me. I did this all to help you."

Nayt prepared to pull the knife out. Would he be able to kill his brother? Just like his brother had killed their father?

Nayt shouted, "Help me?! You stole me from my mother! You switched me with Peder! You're not even my brother."

Salazaar was calm. So calm that Nayt’s anger was puttering out. "I will take you back to them in an hour. I need to help you with the Testing, without Takkai knowing. Or he’ll kill you. And try to kill me again.”

Nayt tried pushing at the door again, but it was solid. He kicked it, then slumped his shoulder against the cool wood.

Salazaar continued. “I’ve been planning this for 15 years, and couldn’t change things without you both dying. There are so many times I wished I didn’t do it, but I did. I made the decision when I was your age. It might have been a mistake, but I think it will be the best thing for you in the long run. I’m sorry.”

Nayt realized how long he had been living a lie. That we were all living a lie.

Salazaar said, “Now listen to me, for this is the most important thing to keep you alive. Your real Testing will start in a few minutes. I need to tell you what to do to keep you safe."

Nayt didn't believe him. Nayt could barely comprehend what he was saying.

"Peder did this three days ago, and he's fine. He's happy." That made Nayt pause. Peder? What?

Then it all came back to him. Peder acting weird, sneaking out of class. Of course, he must have had his real Testing when Nayt had been distracting Saba Takkai with his fake one. That's why he wasn't at the celebration, and why he had been acting so strange.

Nayt shook his head. He didn't want to be part of this evil demon worshipper's plan. Salazaar wasn't even really his brother, was he? Why was Nayt even listening to him? Nayt resolved to stab him if he got any closer.

Salazaar spoke, "At least, let me tell you the moves. Then, you make your own choice. I won't force you into anything. You can do the ones Takkai taught you and turn off your abilities for a year. Or, you can do it the way you were meant to, and find out what is really going on.”

"Where did you do it to Peder?" Nayt asked, still undecided. His head was spinning, and he couldn’t focus. Who was he, really?

"In the Old tower. It has a room at the top. Then I brought him here that night.” Nayt and Peder and Nayt had climbed it many times as kids, and had played seek-and-go-hide in that same room. 

“Why did you bring me here?” Nayt realized that his curiosity was getting the better of him, and he was forgetting to be angry. He clenched his fists in frustration, then shook out his hands. They always felt clammy when he was mad. He really wanted to grab the knife. To put and end to this evil man.

“For the past 10 years, I’ve been working to get us all more powers that the Sabaa and the church have. Only a king has a higher level of power than them. So, I made a tiny kingdom the size of one house. This house. And today, it all becomes official.”

Nayt struggled with his emotions, feeling overwhelmed. “What, you’re a King?”

“I will be in 20 minutes. And, you and Peder will be my Princes, and also have the advanced powers as well. We need to have three adult members of the royalty for it to be official. We need to act fast as the Authority will be alerted and come to destroy us right after.”

A prince? Was his brother serious or delusional?

"Now listen, this is very important. We can do the Testing right here in this hallway, so long as we don’t go outside. We need it to be secret. The Sabaa can’t listen inside homes or private buildings, so there scans won’t show anything. We have only a minute until noon, so memorize this.”

Nayt nodded, resigned to let this insanity continue. His brother the murderer was too dangerous to annoy.

“When you hear a voice, wave your right hand. It will ask you who you are. Say your name. Naytan Fabe or Naytan Peyton - whichever you like. Then close your left hand. That's it. 15 seconds - get ready.”

Nayt was about to ask him about all the movement katas they learned as kids and what was wrong with those, but he guessed they didn't have time. 

Nayt resolved that no matter what Salazaar said he would hit the red demon just as Saba Takkai had always instructed them. Nayt wouldn't become a demon worshipper, even if his fake brother had wanted him to. The Kingdom business was just insanity. Salazaar was probably lying to him to distract him.

A chime sounded, and then a wave of sound rang through Nayt’s ears. It seemed to be coming from all around him. Pictures were forming in his head, colors of rainbows with small animals jumping by.

The demons didn't seem scary, rather they were... cute. Nothing like the Sabaa had always said. Is this what would have happened during his Testing if the Sabaa had done it? With all that incense that had been burning in Takkai’s room, he would only have seen big colorful blobs.

It suddenly all made sense. He had felt at the time that Saba Takkai was hiding something. They were hiding what the demons really looked and sounded like! 

Nayt realized that the overwhelming noise Nayt had heard in Takkai’s Testing room was designed to scare people, and drown out what he was hearing now. Maybe to keep them from listening to the disarmingly cute demons? Nayt just didn't understand. Did he trust the Sabaa? Or this long lost brother who had killed their father? He kept weighing the two against each other. Could the Sabaa really have lied to everyone about what was really going on?

After the demon animals danced, a calm voice clearly said, "Hi." Surprised, Nayt waved with his right hand.

A demon appeared, looking like a talking book. It asked, “What's your name?"