Nayt answered, surprised. "Naytan Fabe. I mean Peyton. Naytan Peyton."

"Hi Naytan Peyton-Fabe. Congratulations on your 15th birthday! I hope it's an extra special one!" It did another little dance, and then threw small pieces of sparkles, which disappeared before they hit Nayt. “Do you need instructions?"

It all boiled down to this. Whom did he trust? Sabaa Takkai or Salazaar? Should Nayt do the kata, and make the X and say “Xan sell” like he had been taught, or follow his brothers instructions? If he did, would he become a demon worshipper? Why were the Sabaa hiding the demons true appearances and voices from them? Just to keep impressionable kids away from the cute animals? Or, were they really lying about everything that was happening?

Nayt had been so afraid over the past few days. He couldn’t imagine living with that kind of fear for the rest of his life.

Nayt decided to trust the Sabaa, to trust the priests. He would do the kata that he had trained for, then leave his crazy brother in his crazy kingdom. 

He started forming the X position with his arms, but then suddenly remembered Leo being killed. And then Takkai attacking Dom. Dom had just been trying to make a helmet for his sister, and had been stabbed and killed in return. Dom had turned out to be a nice guy, just someone totally alone trying to hide his knowledge and live under the shadows of the Sabaa.

If Nayt went back, he would always live in fear. In fear of Sabaa Takkai coming to kill him, too.

Alternatively, Salazaar could teach him. Salazaar could help him know what was really happening. Salazaar could show him how to build amazing things and how to fight against the Sabaa.

Nayt reached out and closed his left hand as Salazaar had said. He decided not to be afraid. He hoped he wouldn’t regret his decision, but he was beginning to suspect that Salazaar might not be totally crazy after all.

The book shrank, and a black hole opened in the floor beneath it. It waved to Nayt, and said, "Good Bye - call me anytime you need something!” then jumped through the hole.

What did Nayt just do? Was he worshipping demons now? Nayt had meant to punch the red demon when it showed up, but it hadn't! What was going on? Tears of confusion and frustration again came to his eyes.

Salazaar stepped up behind him and patted his shoulder.

"Good job. You're all done. Now, let's see about your foot." Nayt glanced down, and realized that he was standing in a pool of his own blood from where his cut foot had been bleeding on the wood floor.

The anger left Nayt, and his knees buckled. Salazaar reached out and caught him. "Whoa, I've got you, you're safe." It was that caring tone that stayed Nayt’s hand from stabbing Salazaar with the breakfast knife that Nayt had hidden in his pants earlier.

“You cut your foot on the glass you dropped. Lets get that taken care of, then I’ll do the coronation ceremony and we can get you home.”

He walked Nayt back into the room Nayt had slept in, then placed him on the bed. 

Nayt’s head was spinning. He had to ask the question that had been plaguing him all morning. “What about the dead people? Is this their room?”

Salazaar laughed, shaking his head. “No, they’ve been dead for days. They were killed by soldiers in a battle in the Northlands last week. I brought them here for part of my plan. I’ll tell you more later, but trust me that I didn’t kill them.”

Nayt was feeling quite woozy, and Salazaar stepped out and returned with a small green container of liquid. 

"This might feel weird" was all he said, and poured some on the gash in Nayt’s foot. It alternated from burning and freezing, causing Nayt to cringe. Within minutes, the wound closed and Nayt began feeling better. His foot tingled and began itching ferociously. He gasped when he saw a grey area forming on his skin, then fall off his foot like a scab.

A minute later, Nayt sat up, feeling wonderful. His head felt bubbly and happy, but quickly cleared leaving him refreshed and alert. Whoa!

Salazaar was dapping some of the magic potion on the large bruise Nayt had made on his face when he was struck with the plate.

"Happy Birthday," Salazaar said, and handed him the vial of liquid, which Nayt pocketed. Such magic would be worth a fortune!

“Are you ready for the coronation? Peder and I have been practicing this for the last week.” Much longer than Nayt had been aware, he thought to himself. Salazaar did always like Peder best.

Nayt nodded, his hand going to the knife he had hidden. He would let this play out but would fight his way out if things got too weird.

Salazaar turned to the air next to him and said “Peder.” Nayt jumped in shock as a half-visible image of Peder appeared in the air next to him. Nayt started at his friend, then realized he could see the background behind him as well. He was in the outhouse of the inn back in town, but had his pants on. He must be hiding there.

Peder’s ghost spoke. “I’m here. It all worked. They don’t suspect anything, but I only have a minute.” Peder then turned and gave a sheepish wave to Nayt, who just stared.

Salazaar nodded and raised up a half-transparent glowing document in the air, which looked like he had summoned out of nothingness. He raised a glowing key and inserted it into a transparent piece of paper. When he did so the key disappeared and text appeared at the bottom of the paper.

Salazaar said in a booming voice. “This is the official proclamation of King Salazaar Fabe, the first. By the laws of Colonial Charter and the sanctity of force, we declare this the foundation of our Kingdom named Thorn. We, the ruling family of Thorn, swear to its formation and to honor the Colonial laws that we are a charter of. So speaks Salazaar, King of Thorn.”

Peder spoke in a quite voice, “So speaks Peder, Prince of Thorn.”

They waited then both turned to look at Nayt.

“Um. So speaks Naytan, Prince of Thorn?”

Salazaar nodded. “It is done - I have submitted the challenge. It will be official in one hour. Good luck, brother.” He waved at Peder whose image disappeared.

Salazaar took a deep breath, "It's amazing that it's finally over. I've been waiting for this for fifteen years."

Nayt let him speak hoping that Salazaar would betray something important. Was his Testing really over? Didn’t he need to fight a demon or something? They were now royalty? He couldn’t believe it.

Salazaar paused, then spoke to Nayt in a friendly tone, "The day before my birthday, I had my Testing. This was before Takkai had taken over and the previous Saba was much less organized. Our father... I mean, my father." He paused, and looked at Nayt sheepishly. "My father was never good at numbers. I was born at midnight and he must have recorded the date wrong by a day. Anyway, I was walking down the street by the docks when my Testing happened. Exactly like yours. A voice spoke, I waved, and suddenly I could do magic. Except, my guide was a horse. I had always wanted a horse when I was younger. What was yours?"

"A book," Nayt answered, guessing he was asking the shape of the talking demon. Salazaar nodded.

Salazaar continued his story, "I knew enough of the Sabaa to know that if anyone found out, I'd be killed. I was an apprentice in the Sept and worked for Takkai, except he was only assistant Saba at the time. He hadn't yet learned how to watch and listen in on the village. I figured that as long as I worked with him, I’d be able to stay safe."

He paused his story, and helped Nayt to his feet. His feet both felt fine. There was no trace of the recent cut as well as a few others that Nayt had accumulated over his childhood. They walked back to the large kitchen.

"And that's it, really. I realized that we'd been lied to our entire lives. The Testing is merely to turn off the powers that we all have… that every human has. When I saw the chance to let two others be awakened, I took it. Now there are two more people with power and now we have the highest powers allowed - more than any of those evil church bastards.”

Had Nayt been awakened? The stories from school always told that there must be a blood sacrifice for the demons. Was cutting his foot enough?

Salazaar passed Nayt another drink of the orange juice, and then took out a large knife from a drawer and stepped towards the boy menacingly. "It is time."

For the second time in an hour, Nayt dropped his glass on the floor.