Fiona fell forward, landing on her outstretched palms in the twilight of a cave. It was a large dark opening. She scrambled to her feet, pulling out a knife and clutching it defensively. She crouched, breathing quickly, staring around in stark terror. Magic.

A heady smell hung in the air. It was damp and smelled like rotting meat. Her eyes darted back and forth trying to make sense of what she was looking at. She held her hand over her mouth to keep from retching at the smell.

Looking over her shoulder, she saw that the back of her leg was emerging from solid rock. It looked so real from the outside but from here it was partially transparent and ghostly. A trickle of light filtered in through the illusory rock and if she squinted she could see the stream outside.

Why would a cave be hidden by magic? Could Farmer Bauer have some sort of magic? Some ability to make illusions like the Sabaa? Could he be hiding treasures inside?

Maybe there was something valuable inside. She would look around and grab anything she could sell back in town.

The inside of the cave was perfectly smooth. It looked hollowed out; different from any cave she had been in. The front of the cave had the see-through rock wall and it was about five paces wide in a perfect rectangle. As her eyes adjusted to the darkness, she saw a few mounds of sticks or dirt scattered about the floor. Inside, the ground sloped down for another twenty paces before she couldn’t see any further inside the gloom.

Fiona took a step forward and her foot crunched on something hard. She reached out and felt smooth long sticks. Looking down she realized they were bones. The small crushed bones of a muskrat or beaver. The carcass was picked clean, but the pelt was untouched. It smelled dry and peppery, with a hint of old meat and salty blood. Something lived in this cave, something deadly.

Should she continue searching, or get out of there? It was past noon on the day of Peder's Testing. She was pretty sure that if Farmer Bauer had been by, she would have seen him. She patrolled the river all morning. Could he be in the cave now, or one of the smugglers he would be meeting?

So many questions. Could she be wrong about him using the Tests as cover for his Smuggling activities? Or, had she stumbled into something much more dangerous?

Fiona became aware of a scurrying sound from deeper in the cave. It sounded wrong, not like any animal she had ever heard. She couldn't be sure but she thought she saw a reddish glint from up ahead.

The grip on her knife tightened, and Fiona realized she was breathing too fast. She exhaled, forcing herself to breath naturally. She had learned that in tense situations, she needed to keep her body ready to move, and breathing normal was key.

A small tingling from her chest confirmed her fears and her danger sense pulsed a warning. It was faint, though, tentative.

She pulled out her second knife for good measure and decided she had enough of this dark and spooky cave, and definitely enough of Bauer and his illicit activities. She had never dreamed that he would be caught up in evil magic. She had wanted to rescue Nayt, but this might be over her head.

Almost as though her thoughts had summoned him, she saw a raft pull up on the rocks outside.

Fiona squeaked in pure terror. She was sure of it now, there was movement deeper in the cave, approaching her. And to make things worse, Bauer had jumped out of the raft and was pulling it up onto the rocks. He had a giant bone cleaver hanging from his belt. It was a wicked knife, probably used for butchering pigs. He would be inside within a minute, and would certainly see her once he passed the wall.

She quickly stepped to the side looking for someplace to hide inside the cave. She couldn’t go down the ramp, as the skittering sounds were coming from that direction. Should she draw her bow instead? Her hands were trembling, worse than when she’d fought that bugbear.

Dust covered the walls and floor. As Fiona scrambled to the side of the doorway her foot crunched on more bones. The corner had some sort of nest full of old withered branches and packed dirt. She sheathed both knifes onto her belt, and crouched down. She reached back into her pack, and pulled out her father’s old hat, pulling it over her head for cover. She grabbed the dried-up old nest and pulled it on top of her as well.

Dust flew from the dirty old nest, and Fiona tucked her arms and legs under her as far as possible. She knew from hunting that her eyes would be easiest to see in the gloom. For the first time in her life, she thanked the Gods for her dark skin that would help her blend in. 

She couldn’t see much but the scrapings from outside were enough to tell her that Bauer was almost inside the cave. As a last thought she pulled her backpack down and held it in front of her face. Waiting in the dark strange cave was the worst thing she had felt in her life. She wanted her mother, her father, anyone to protect her. She prayed to the Three and the Four to keep her safe, to not let Bauer find her. He would kill her, or worse, sell her as a slave to the northerners.

Nothing was happening. Why was it so quiet? She fought to control her breathing, to take slow breaths through her nose. It itched and she clamped a hand over her nose to prevent the sudden urge to sneeze. Her heart was beating so hard and she wanted to cry from the terror.

She inched her pack slightly to the side. Bauer still had not entered the cave. He was standing outside fumbling with a piece of wood. It looked like he had brought a ramp to roll the barrels down. Of course, she thought, the floor was sloped and would make it easier to get the barrels into the darker part of the cave below.

Glancing down the floor she saw that something had emerged from the darkness. The source of the skittering sound and it was staring right at her with burning red eyes.

Another sudden urge to sneeze overcame her and this time she couldn’t hold back. The sneeze echoed in her ears and she actually squeaked from the fright. She was so scared that she was starting to pant.

Gulping, she put the pack back over her face and moved her hand down to grab her knife. What was that? She screamed silently inside her head. She couldn’t control her breathing. It had been large, a dark figure with glowing red eyes and the impression of many sharp claws.

They were going to hear her!

The skittering sound started again, coming closer. It was walking towards her. The hard skittering clicks of rapid, tiny footfalls on the cave floor left Fiona thinking of scorpions on stone.She couldn’t risk looking again but thought the demon must have razor-tipped claws. Or a giant spider. It would rip both her and Bauer to shreds. He was about to walk in to the thing’s lair. Should she warn him? One swipe of those claws would cut the large burly man. Even he didn’t deserve such a fate, did he?

She shifted and a bone or stick stabbed her in the back. It stung and she had to fight to not make a sound.

Farmer Bauer stepped in through the rock and she heard a faint tzzst from the monster. Another few clicks as it drew back. Maybe it was about to strike? Maybe she could let these two fight and run out while they were distracted? She tensed, trying to take enough of a quiet breath to jump up and run.

She fought the urge to push the pack out of her face and see what was happening.

“There you are.” Bauer grunted, and her hopes crashed down around her. He had known she was there all along. Could he have been watching her the whole time? She sighed and went limp. He had her. She resigned herself to her fate and just prayed he wouldn’t use that giant knife.

She moved to sit up, thinking for a wild instant that she could plead that everything was a big mistake.

The farmer continued speaking, “Take this barrel and roll it down below to the loading area. When you are finished, come back up to this spot.”

“OK,” said the thing in the cave. It was a hard voice and Fiona thought it sounded dead. He was speaking to the creature! Some magic demon spider?

Tears were in her eyes and she almost peed from the relief. He didn’t know that Fiona was there, didn’t see her in the corner. 

Then, she realized that the demon must know about her. Would it tell Bauer that she was there? She had to know.

Fiona slowly pulled her pack to the side, just enough to see the inside of the cave. She saw a large spider walking towards a barrel, using two gleaming arms to roll it sideways down the sloped floor. It had jerky steps and didn’t move like any living animal. Like a skeleton. A spider made of shiny bones.

She watched as Bauer moved in the other five barrels, handing them to the spider when it came back up from the dark part of the cave. Each time he relayed the command in the exact same words. Was the spider some sort of demon slave?

She watched the spider moved seven barrels in ten minutes. The stress and tension was wearing off and her muscles ached from being in such an uncomfortable position. The stick in her back felt like it had dug through her skin and she was afraid that any wound in this damp rotten place would get infected.

She almost wasn’t paying attention as Bauer unloaded the last barrel while waiting for the spider. Then disaster struck.

The barrel was sideways on the ground, ready to be rolled down the cave towards the bottom. The lid popped off the large wooden barrel, and food tumbled out. Most of it fell in a pile but an apple rolled out directly towards her. Farmer Bauer walked towards her, then bent down to pick up the apple. His looked right at her for a second, then with a shock he stared directly into her eyes.

He saw her!

With a sick fascination, she watched as his hand went to the huge butcher knife at his waist. He took two steps backwards, then slipped on an apple and fell back onto the barrel. But, Fiona saw that he puled out his knife. It was huge.

A grind echoed behind him. He grunted and turned to the noise. The barrel had gotten loose and was rolling down the sloping floor. He yelped and reached out to grab it, dropping the knife. It had picked up enough momentum so that his hand couldn’t get a purchase on the wood and it kept rolling as he ran to catch it, cursing.

The spider was just reappearing and the barrel was rolling down straight towards it. She had to get out of there!

Fiona jumped up, clutching her knife in one hand and her pack in the other. She ran out the transparent doorway and blinked at the sudden bright light. She heard cursing from the rock but didn’t stop to see what emerged. She ran faster than she ever had before, taking a left along the stream and running straight along the rock face into the woods.

A minute later, she heard sounds of pursuit coming from the cave. Her back was throbbing, indicating that the Farmer and his demon were chasing her. She didn’t stop running for a mile until she saw the Old tower in town. She had to find help!