Salazaar laughed at Nayt’s shock. "No, I just mean we need to cut your clothes so that it looks like slavers tried to kidnap you. The official announcement of our kingdom being formed will happen soon so we need to get moving immediately. Here,” he handed Nayt the knife, handle first. "Cut some holes like you've escaped through the forest. And hurry. We need you back in town by third bell or Takkai will be able to ping your position. The system lets him look anyone up after a day of officially being lost or kidnapped.”

Salazaar looked away, then said, "Peder passed his fake Testing and is starting his birthday celebration now. Fake celebration but it's nice that everyone's festive. He’ll be fine.” Salazaar took the knife from Nayt’s hands, and put it into a belt sheathe. Nayt still had the other knife in his belt, thought he was relieved to think he might not have to use it.

"OK," Nayt said and then stepped down, making sure to avoid the broken glass this time. They walked out of the hallway and this time the front door opened. Looking back from the outside, one could barely tell there was a building there, it fit so well into the side of the hill.

Nayt had been thinking about the special coin that Dom had given him before he died. Something about Salazaar’s house reminded him of it. He was about to ask the wizard about the coin and what it was but had his thoughts interrupted.

“Sorry about the glass. I forgot that you people don't wear real shoes.” Nayt wondered what that meant? It was sweltering hot outside and the heat added to his agitation. He had just been given a pair of wood and leather shoes by Master Peyton, who Nayt realized now was his true father.

Nayt said, a little testily. “The guards do, and the Sabaa." Nayt was proud of that, as those leather shoes were made in the Weavery where Nayt worked. The ones he was wearing still itched horribly and were stained with Dom's blood. They were a present but he did wish they wouldn't make his feet sweat so much in the heat. He saw that Salaazar wore nice leather boots and had thick padded soles. They were thick on the bottom, and had small holes up and down the side, presumably to allow air to flow through and cool the feet. They were beautiful, and Nayt felt a little jealous.

Salazaar's cart was outside and they pulled themselves up into the back of it. “Hold onto the side. We’ll pull out fast soon. We must still be on our ‘homeland’ when our ‘kingdom’ is formed.” Nayt could hear Salaazar’s irony at saying the words.

“How big is the… er, our Kingdom?”

Salazaar pointed. “That house and about ten feet on either side. This entire hill was somehow not claimed as part of either the Authority’s kingdom in the South or the Iron lands to the North. I found it quite luckily years ago and have had a residence here for 7 years, which made it officially my land by Colonial law. As of 10 seconds ago, it’s officially our Kingdom and it’s time to say goodbye. Hold on!”

Salazaar gestured, and the cart lurched into motion. It sped up faster than Nayt thought possible. The horse driving the cart was half invisible and half visible. It looked like a ghost. 

Salazaar said, “I’m sorry about insulting your shoes. I didn’t mean it to be condescending. I just get… frustrated because we could all live so much better. The Sabaa just keep the best things like medicine and metal for themselves and rule over everyone else as peasants." He shook his head and then noticed Nayt was staring at the ghost horse. Somehow the cart was moving even without a real horse. It was another illusion. That’s what Nayt had noticed the other night. The horse had been fully visible then, but had no smell.

"Ahh. Now that you're awakened, you will see through these illusions." He waved his hand through the horse’s backside, and it didn't even flinch. It was amazingly detailed. Looking closely, Nayt could see veins, spots, and small hairs - exactly like a real horse. Fliers were buzzing over its tail, and it would occasionally flick at them in annoyance. But it was all fake. All an illusion, just halfway visible. They were passing over a hill heading south and the horse strained muscles in his legs exactly like a real horse would.

Salazaar said. “Everyone who isn't awakened will see them as fully visible. The system was made to play games with children but the makers never thought people wouldn’t be allowed to grow up. Nayt didn't understand his last statement but was still angry that Salazaar had called him and the villagers peasants. 

Nayt asked “What was that business with the key and the paper?”

Salazaar gestured, and a key appeared in his hand. “Do this move. No, with your pinky in and your index finger out, while turning your wrist. Yes, like that. That’s called your private key. It has your identity, your… powers. Kind of like a signature, but more binding. You can use it to gain access to some things. Now that you are a royal, yours will get you access to more things than almost anyone else on the planet.”

Nayt played with his key, practicing the gesture then waving it away. His golden key would pop into his hand then disappear as soon as he dropped it. Magic.

Nayt was starting to relax after this hectic morning. The hills and trees speeding by were incredible to watch, and the constant movement began to lull him.

Even though Salazaar could be rude, he wasn’t as crazy at Nayt had feared. He seemed to have actually figured some things out, and his command of magic was amazing. Even if he did have some weird delusions of bing a King, it seemed safest for Nayt to just stay with him for a while longer. He said that he would take Nat back to town, and maybe the story about being kidnapped by slavers would work out. And, he needed to speak with Peder to find out what was going on. Maybe the two of them could protect each other from the Sabaa, or maybe leave and go live somewhere else before they were caught.

He thought through what Salazaar had just said about illusions being half visible. Had he just called Nayt a peasant?

Nayt said, “We aren’t peasants. We have an Inn, a school, and a dock. I heard that many of the towns down river didn't have any of those!"

His fake-brother gestured and pictures of three other villages popped up in front of him with some buildings highlighted in blinking colors. Nayt just stared at the pictures hanging in air, shocked at the detail and the colors.

Names of each village were spelled out under each, Mill Hill’s, Huge, Cat’s Cradle, and Shore. He recognized those as nearby Pents and Cents he grew up hearing stories about. All of them also had inns, schools, and docks, he saw with dismay. Same as his town. The Pent of Shore was even larger and looked nicer than his hometown. And it had two docks full of boats.

He blinked hard and the pictures went away. Was it reading his mind? How did it know what he was thinking? Demons? It was annoying how his brother could win an argument without even saying a word.

Salazaar raised his hand in a palms-out gesture, and the cart pulled to an abrupt stop. Nayt thought it rode much smoother than any cart normally pulled by a horse.

Salazaar turned to look back towards the hill from which they had come. Nayt turned and looked as well. The moving cart had covered a good distance in the last few minutes, faster than a normal horse could move. Salazaar pointed, and Nayt could barely see the hill where their ‘Kingdom’ was.

Salazaar said, “Here, make this exact hand movement. It will zoom in. I would set it for you myself, but I don’t have access to your controls.”

Nayt shot a questioning look at his brother, then tried to mirror the hand movements. After the third try of clenching his right fist then wiggling his index finger in a circle while also touching his left thumb and pinky, his vision began to… grow. The hill became larger, while the sun seemed less bright. Magic. Had he just used magic? Was he damned?

Salazaar patted him on the back. “Good job. Now, wait for it. The Authority just noticed that a new Kingdom was formed.”

Nayt started, blinking. Red dots were appearing in his eyes like vision spots. They were moving from two directions in the bottom of his vision towards a yellow star that was floating towards the top. Were these demons?

“Nayt, cover your eyes with your left hand, but keep your right finger out. That way, you can still see the Authority’s displeasure without being blinded by it.”

Nayt raised his hand over his eyes but saw that he could still see through his hand partially. A transparent outline of the hill was visible. The red dots were rushing towards it like angry birds swooping out of the sky. A giant ball of fire erupted over the hill and Nayt jumped in shock. A second later a great rumbling sound like thunder reached his ears and the ground shook under their wagon.

Salazaar turned back and the cart sped on again. “That’s why the dead bodies were there, to throw off their investigations when they examine the wreckage. Say goodbye to your Kingdom.” He shook his head. “Easy come, easy go.”