Nayt was dumbfounded. “What? What happened? It caught on fire!”

Salazaar chuckled. “The Authority sent a giant fireball to destroy it. I’m sure his imperial troops are on the way to investigate, but we’ll be far gone by the time they arrive. Our Kingdom has been destroyed but we still have the power of royalty, even if we are in exile. The plan worked perfectly. The green demon was right.”

They rode in silence for a while as Nayt thought through things. He still had to process much of what had happened but realized that Salazaar had been right about everything so far. Did that mean he was right about the Sabaa? Were they really just making excuses to cover up the fact that everyone could do magic? Could the Authority really send fireballs out of the sky like that? 

Nay had goosebumps from the sheer forceful display of magic at destroying the hill. Such power. Might he someday be just as powerful?

It took a while before Nayt noticed the green spot in the corner of his vision. He swatted at it with his hands, but it stayed.

"What's the matter?" Salazaar asked.

Nayt just pointed, or tried to. A tiny green demon was sitting in the bottom right corner of his eye. Every time Nayt moved his head, it moved too. "It's in my eye! There's a demon inside my eye." Nayt was hysterical, swatting at his face, breathing hard.

Salazaar gestured and the cart stopped. "Calm down. Stop hitting yourself." He held Nayt’s arms until he stopped. The demon was still there in his eye.

"It's not a demon. It's called an ‘Icon’.”

"It's green." was all Nayt managed to squeak. One of them was in his head!

He sighed. "It's yours to command. Everyone has one, the priests just have you do that ceremony each year to hide them. Try this." He raised his left hand, and made a squeeze motion into a fist.

Nayt reluctantly did the same. Suddenly, the demon icon vanished, and the book appeared, seeming to climb onto the ghost horse in front of them. "Hi Prince Naytan!”

“It’s back. The book is back and it’s talking to me.”

Salazaar chuckled, and gestured to restart the horseless wagon. "Yes, anytime you want him, just squeeze your hand like that. Your hand has to be empty to do it. Then you can ask it any question, and it will answer as best as it knows. And it knows a lot. You can also give it a name and just say or think that." 

Amazing, Nayt thought. His own personal demon. The Sabaa would kill him if they found out. Is this what had happened to Dom?

Just to show his fake brother that Nayt was still following along with all that was happening, he turned to the book and asked, "What will happen tomorrow?"

The book jumped up excitedly, and it's pages ruffled. Nayt noticed that it now was transparent, just like the horse. Nayt could both see it and not see it. 

"Tomorrow is the 7th of Joon, and the weather will be rainy starting at 1 in the afternoon, but clear up by 5pm. Both the suns Viper and Draco and no moons will be visible from this point at dusk. Most likely, a trading vessel named Phoenix will dock in your village, the captain will be looking to purchase a rudder as his is broken. In country-wide news, the Authority is hosting a parade in the capitol at noon. Would you like to hear more?"

Nayt shook his head, and the book disappeared again. He turned to Salazaar. "How does it know the future? How can it see the capitol? How does the magic work?”

Salazaar stopped Nayt by raising a hand. "We have little time before we get back to town, so I'll be brief. If I don’t have you back in an hour, Saba Takkai will be able to request your location from the Authority, and those troops will not be forgiving.

“I can't hear what your book said, as it's private only to you. It's too hard to explain how it knows, but it doesn't lie. The Capitol is 200 miles along the river to the South. Your book will answer these types of questions. And," he added, "It is not a demon, just a green circle that’s shown inside your eye. There is only one green demon, and you’ll know if you see him. It is evil; if you ever see him, don’t listen to what he says and call me immediately.”

Nayt just nodded. He would have to think through all of this later. He asked. “Won’t the Sabaa be able to see where I’ve been?”

Salazaar gestured, and images appeared in the air in front of them. He said. “This is called the map. You can use it to see anywhere in the world. You can see where anyone is that is in a public place, like outside of homes while still inside a town. This is where you are, along with everyplace you’ve been.”

Nayt saw a line appear starting at a green star and heading up to the North and back to the South to a black circle. The green star had his name next to it, and was getting close to the black circle that was labeled “Weaver's Launch”.

Nayt recognized the forest that they were approaching was the one close to Farmer Bauer’s lands. They were almost back to town. This magic cart drove so much faster than a normal horse. Salazaar stopped the cart again by gesturing with his hand.

"Now, I’d like to ask you to do three things. They are up to you, but I'm telling you to keep you and Peder alive. If either of you slips up, you will likely both be killed before I can come save you, as I need to lead the troops away from here so they think we went North into the Iron lands. The Authority’s troops can be here in less than a day, if the Sabaa don’t get you first. Do you understand?" Nayt nodded, though he was having trouble thinking of anything other than the questions he could ask his book, and the fact that he was now some sort of a Prince in hiding.

"First, tell your book that you want to set your status to invisible to everyone except Peder and I, and to never show your royal title unless commanded to do so.”

Nayt tried telling the book, but realized that he had to raise his left hand first. "Book, I want to go invisible to everyone except Peder and Salazaar.“ The book appeared, and nodded, but remained on the horse watching the two.

“Book, did you hear what Salazaar said? If so, do that.”

Book nodded helpfully. “I will hide your royal title so that no one can detect it and never refer to it again unless commanded.”

"Next, ask the book to make a link to the map. When you do, think of something unique, like a roll of dusty old parchment." Nayt relayed the command to the book, and tried to think of old parchment paper. The book nodded, then said, "Done. Ready."

"Last, I'm going to hand you three glowing pictures. These aren't real. They're like… spells. Take them and hand them to your book."

Each were rectangles that hovered in the air. They glowed, but could be seen through. As Nayt looked closer, they had many words etched inside of them, with line after line of text. Almost like the writing he had seen in Master Payton’s old books. As Nayt looked longer, they visibly expanded and bubbles of writing became visible around them, containing words like “administrative”, and “geospatial display”. 

Salazaar held each out to Nayt, and they glowed transparent, just like the horse and book.

Nayt asked, “Can’t you just cast them on me? Like wizards in the stories?”

Salazaar sighed “It doesn’t work like that. Every person has only one other person that can cast spells on them, or what we call ‘change their settings’. Only the Authority can do this to those of us that were awoken on our 15th birthday. There’s supposed to be some hack to be able to awaken people earlier and gain that control over them, but I have never found it. So, no. I can’t cast any spells on you. And you can’t cast them on other people. Just make images and sound appear to them, or look up information. That’s all that magic is, I’m afraid.” 

Nayt reached out his hand and grabbed the three spells. He couldn’t feel them, but they stayed in his hand as though they were real, about the size of playing cards. As Nayt handed the first spell to the book, it said in a very serious voice. "Naytan, this is a request for permission to turn me and all access off anytime you are within five paces of Saba Takkai or any Saba or Sitta. It also will turn off when they might detect your ‘Awakened’ status. You will be unable to query me until they are away, and they will not be able to detect my presence. Do you wish to allow this?" Nayt nodded. Definitely.

The second spell was also straightforward. “Naytan, this is a request to edit your map trail for the past 24 hours so that it shows you having been to the north of your town in a forest, then leaving that forest a few hours ago. Do you want me to edit your trail?”

Nayt simply said. “Yes.”

The third spell gave him more of a pause. When Nayt handed it to book, the Book seemed to frown. "Naytan, this is requesting that you be given membership of a group. That group is listed as forbidden by the Authority of this nation. Membership will not list your title or name, just refer to you as Apollo. Membership is completely anonymous."

Nayt gulped. "Did Peder join?"

The book answered, "The membership is private. No member lists are recorded, and only members within 20 paces of each other will be revealed, but you will be asked if you want to show yourself first. I must warn that this would be an illegal activity by the laws of this country.”

Salazaar also answered. "Both Peder and I are in it. The Authority and the Sabaa are evil, and are keeping everyone as peasants. It’s up to you whether you want to join this group of thinkers, but if you do, you should be prepared to help others fight the Authority’s power. If you ever get in trouble, ask book to call me and then find a weapon and defend yourself or better yet run towards the Capitol or the nearest larger city. It is dangerous for awakened, but most of us rebels are there hiding among the population.”

“How many rebels are there? And can I quit it later?”

Salazaar looked proud. “31, now across the entire country. 32 if you join. You don’t have to accept and you can quit the group at any time. You can quit at any time, but if you do, you’ll never be able to join again.”

Nayt thought about it and decided to just jump in and try it. He told the book that he accepted, but felt nothing change once he did.

“These spells should help keep you safe and let you find others to help you, in case I’m unavailable. I spend most of my time near the capital, so I won’t be here to help you in case of trouble. They’ll protect you from everyone… except maybe the Authority. And Gods help us if you ever run into him.”

Salazaar gestured, and a number appeared in front of them hovering in air.

“This is a clock. It lists the time. Just think the word ‘clock’ and it will appear. In 20 minutes, Takkai will be able to request a trace on your location, so you better hurry back to town. Any of the Sabaa or any one with Royal powers can trace people after they’ve been missing for 24 hours. Also, we can use the map to look at almost anything happening in the world, though we can’t see inside peoples homes or private buildings. There are thousands of other things we can now do with the royal powers. You’ll figure them out, I’m sure.” 

Salazaar was smiling. Nayt wondered what other powers they had, especially that Salazaar was some sort of King now. What did that mean? And was Salazaar doing this because he cared for them, or just that he wanted some new type of spells?

They were at the hill right before Farmer Bauer’s northern fields. Nayt stepped down from the wagon.

Salazaar pointed towards Nayt’s belt. “I’ll need that knife back, too. If you bring that much metal into town, the alarms will go off.”

Nayt raised his head, trying to think of an excuse. He looked down, and saw that the knife was glowing, with a red ring around it. Salazaar must have known the entire time. He had known that Nayt could attack him and let him keep the knife anyway.

Nayt shrugged, then pulled it out of his leather belt. Again, he was surprised and how sharp it was, almost like a kris-tooth. Had he really had that so close to his belly? He might have seriously hurt himself. It was worth so much money, though.

Shoulders slumped, he gingerly placed the knife on the floor of the wagon, where Salazaar picked it up. Thankfully, his brother said nothing more about it, just smiled and gave Nayt a little wave.

Salazaar turned the cart around and started driving off towards the East. He didn’t even look back at Nayt.

Nayt was shocked that his brother hadn’t said goodbye. He was surprised to realize that he was starting to enjoy his brother’s company, and would miss him. 

Nayt then heard Salazaar’s voice in his ear, even as he rode away. Was he using magic to speak to him in his head, the way they had spoken to Peder earlier that day?

Salazaar said, I must be going, but I’ll be waiting close by until you’re safely in town. There is a guard patrol walking this way. If you think of your map, you will see them as brown dots. 

You’ll figure it out pretty quickly, but there are three ways of doing anything with spells. Say the words of what you want, think the words very clearly, or do hand gestures. I like to do all three, but you can set up your interface any way you want. Your book can tell you more, or you can just read the messages from the group. They’re always talking about how to do things differently or better. If you ever need me, just tell your book you want to talk with me. And, always try to speak to it under your breath. 

I’m sorry for thrusting you into all of this, but I think it’s the best thing for all of us. Remember to stay discrete and safe.

Nayt shook his head at the overwhelming newness of it all, rubbing moisture from his eye. He turned, running back to town. He was covered in mud, blood, and cuts, but he wasn’t quite sure he was happy to be home. How would he explain this all?

Nayt concentrated on old parchment, and his vision was suddenly blurry with lines. This must be the map Salazaar meant. It was amazing to see the area this way, almost like a bird must see things. Two brown dots were slowly moving towards him, and another blue dot labeled Salazaar was moving away to the North at a fast pace. A green star flashed where Nayt was now running through the forest. An arrow pointed to where the town must be, straight to the South.

Nayt tried speaking under his breath. Will you be back? It was difficult and Nayt mumbled a little bit. Nayt wasn't sure yet if he should thank his pseudo-brother or curse him for his meddling.

Don't worry. I'm sure we'll see each other again soon. Take care of our families, and call if you need anything.

It sounded as though Salazaar was standing next to him, even though he was now farther than Nayt could see.

His brother continued, I love you and Peder and mom, and will be watching after you all. A tear fell from Nayt’s eye at that, and he brushed it away and just ran harder.

Nayt thought of one last thing to say, and mumbled it towards Salazaar. Hey, you should put an old bale of hay in your wagon. The horse seems weird because it doesn’t smell like poop and hay. Bye, brother.

Salazaar laughed and said Clever, which made Nayt smile. He could feel that the conversation ended.

It was time to get back to town and see if he could talk himself out of this mess.

Nayt ran toward the patrolling guards, remembering at the last minute that he was supposed to be wounded from slavers. They yelled when they saw him and ran to his aid. His appearance was convincing enough, with a bloody foot and torn clothes. Nayt told them that he had escaped from a slaver’s camp and walked all night. 

The guards nearly carried him the rest of the way back to town. Soon Saba Takkai and Saba Eetho came running up to him, also showing as red dots on his map. Nayt started panicking. What if the spell didn’t work? What if they could tell that he was a demon worshipper now? Could they smell the magic on him or something like that? He needed to think about what to say.

Nayt glanced down and saw that he was wringing his hands together. He forced them to his sides and tried to stop grinding his teeth.

As soon as the Sabaa came within a few steps of Nayt, the green icon vanished from his sight and the map disappeared.

Nayt had tried a few sentences in his head, and nothing sounded good. It was now or nothing. Before Saba Takkai could speak, Nayt blurted out “How’s Peder? Did he finish his test?”

The question caught the High Saba off guard, but Eetho smiled and nodded. “He is fine. He passed his test, and is still celebrating at the inn. You can tell us what happened as we walk there.”

Nayt started making up a story of being kidnapped by two slavers that had come from the North. The Sabaa nodded gravely. They asked for details on the men’s faces, but he explained that it was dark and he didn’t recognize anyone, and got away first thing in the morning using a sharp rock to cut his rope. They asked him about where he had been, how tall the men were, and if they used magic. Nayt explained what he could, but repeated a few times that he wasn’t sure about anything and that it had all been dark.

Last, Saba Eetho pointed to him and waved his hands. Saba Takkai looked and nodded, then said. “Our magic shows that the slavers took you to a forest just North of town and had you tied up there until a few hours ago.”

The guards shrank bak, and made the sign of the Seven. Priest magic was holy but still frightening. Nayt made the same sign, though he now realized the Sabaa were just using a simple trick of viewing his map history, which was easily fooled. His brother’s crazy plan might just work.

After a few repetitions the Sabaa seemed to get bored of questioning him. They left him with a warning to not go walking alone out at night. As Saba Takkai turned to go, Eetho actually handed Nayt a crown and said, “Go buy a beer to celebrate your friend’s success.”

Nayt thanked him, then opened the door to the inn. Everyone turned to stare, then started shouting in joy and surprise. His mother was near the door and bust into tears when she saw him and rushed to envelop him in a big hug.

Master Kvothe the bartender ushered him inside and called for silence and handed Nayt a beer while asking him to recount his tale. He did so quickly, making sure to tell the same story that he had given to the priests.

They cheered at the good parts, and someone shouted that he was a hero. Nayt told them that the real hero was Peder, who the slavers had heard chasing them in the woods last night, which distracted them and let Nayt get his bonds loose so he could cut them in the morning. It came out as a jumbled mess, but by the third drink had developed into quite a good story.

Afterwards, Jayna lunged out of the crowd and kissed him, crying yet again. From across the Inn, Nayt noticed Peder's eyes get wide, and Peder’s voice spoke in his ears, Don't tell that story of being a hero too many times, or you'll start believing it yourself.

Nayt first jumped, then smiled back at his friend, winking. Under his breath, he mumbled Book, can you make a big naked butt appear in the air in front of Peder so that only he can see it? 

Nayt saw Peder fall off of his chair. The room erupted in laughter, and comments rang out that three drinks was too much for Peder to handle.

These powers might not be all that bad after all.