Fiona ran past the Old Tower and along Merchants Road. She knew she would be safe in town, and her wits were returning to her. 

She rubbed her blurry eyes and fought to control her breathing. The last thing she needed was for the Sabaa to question her and find her guilty of demon worship by association. She needed a plan.

First things first. She pulled the ugly black hat from her head, where it flopped like a dead bird. She stuffed it into her bag. She wasn’t sure how much Farmer Bauer had seen of her, but knew he would recognize that hat if he saw her wearing it.

Fiona had slowed her pace, walking towards the inn. She hoped that Peder had passed his test, and needed to see a friendly face. Even if it was Peder’s who always teased her. Peder was almost as big as Farmer Bauer, and might even be able to help protect her.

She kept looking back over her shoulder, or watching the stream; making sure that the evil Farmer was nowhere nearby. She wasn’t sure, but she doubted that he knew it was she in the cave. He had just walked in from the sun, and would only have seen her eyes and a green backpack. Maybe she could get away with it.

Walking into the Inn, she smiled in spite of herself. The room was happy, laughing, and cheering. Nayt was sitting on a bench right in front of her, covered in dirt and blood, but in good spirits. He had a tankard in his hand, and he and Peder were singing drinking songs with some of the older men from town. Jayna was sitting next to Nayt, desperately holding his hand.

She stopped, mouth open in surprise. Nayt was back.

Peder turned to her and shouted, “It’s Fido! Come here, little slayer, come have a drink to celebrate our manhood!”

She blushed. He was drunk. The older men all laughed some more, but Nayt disengaged himself from the table and walked up to her.

Nay smiled. “Hoi Fi. You OK? You look like you’re as scraped up as I am.” Self-consciously, she brushed a piece of bone from her shirt.

She answered, “I’ll tell you later. Where have you been?”

Nayt paused, then looked away. “Slavers grabbed me, but I got away. I just got back. I’m fine.” He wouldn’t look her in the eye. She realized that he was lying about something and was about to press further. She had almost died trying to rescue him, and he was treating her like this?

Before she could yell at him, Jayna leaned over and gave Nayt a huge open-mouthed kiss, making sure Fiona would see. She then turned and gave Fiona a triumphant look. Fiona scowled back at the clean-scrubbed girl.

Jayna whispered loudly to Nayt, “They’re letting you and Peder and I off of work for the rest of the day to celebrate you coming home and Peder helping to rescue you. Our heroes! Come, let’s go to my house and celebrate.”

Jayna pulled Nayt’s hand and led him out the door. Fiona stared daggers at the tall yellow haired girl.

Nayt looked back, but was pulled out before he could say anything. The door of the inn closed in Fiona’s face. She sighed.

Fiona didn’t feel very festive, so she left the inn. The celebration was breaking up anyway, with everyone stumbling off towards home or work, or ordering a last drink. Fiona felt more alone than she had before. What was she going to do now?

She walked to the Weavery with a group of others than left the inn, keeping an eye out for the farmer. Now that she was safe, her mind raced. She wrinkled her nose. Everyone smelt like stale bread.

Fiona saw a drunken and celebratory Master Peyton and his wife and walked over to join them. The broad-shouldered smith kept calling out to passerbys that his son Peder was now a man. His wife tried valiantly to shush him with little success.

Fiona followed them into the Weavery, and received a hug from Missus Peyton as they walked together. “I was so worried about him.” The older lady whispered to her. 

She didn’t know what to say, so just nodded. It made her think of her brother Leo, and she felt the familiar ache in her heart.

Fiona briefly considered asking the Sabaa for help with Farmer Bauer, but realized she couldn’t trust them.

The Peytons soon got back to work and the Weavery resumed the usual, if somewhat more jovial, commotion. They were singing songs of thanks to the Maker and all of the other Gods, which just put her more on edge. All that singing might attract Bauer’s attention.

Fiona realized that she needed camouflage. Just like in hunting. It would be best for her to look like she had been working all day. She took off her dirty green clothing and put on a red apron and a protective hat made of straw that she borrowed from Missus Peyton. 

Fiona picked up a bushel of arrows to be fletched and sat outside on the deck facing the river. She sanded down the arrow shafts, and added feathers to each, coating them in just the right amount of wax. It was a simple task that she was good at, but gave her the excuse of having her bow nearby.

She kept an eye on the river, and soon her heart sped up when she saw Farmer Bauer riding by on his raft. Sure enough, he was coming from up-river, paddling the small boat right by the dock she was on. In a minute, he would turn up the stream through town that led to his farmhouse.

She had her bow on the deck before her, out of his line of sight. There was an arrow notched, and she was pretty sure she could shoot back if he threatened her. How she would explain it to the Sabaa, she didn’t know. She’d probably have to take them to the cave and confess what she had seen. Maybe Saba Eetho would listen. Probably not. Killing a village elder would probably not keep her in his good graces.

Fiona continued sanding an arrow, keeping one hand on the bow. She wanted to shake from the fear but held it in. She carefully controlled her face so that it wouldn’t show any expression except boredom.

Farmer Bauer rowed by, less than ten feet from her. She glanced down and saw that he was looking up at her. She gave a smile and a wave like she always did. He scowled and turned away, shaking his head. Had he not noticed her at all?

It must have been the hat. He must not have suspected her! She watched as he paddled into town turning left into the stream that would take him up through the town towards home. Inwardly she cheered. She had made it away safely. 

Fiona sagged in the chair, and let the arrows fall to the deck. 

She finally let herself tremble and take a deep breath. It had worked. A long sigh escaped her.

But what now? She would have to do something about the demon spider and the cave, and couldn’t go to the Sabaa for help. She wanted to tell Nayt, or maybe even Peder; but they had their own problems. Her parents wouldn’t be able to do anything about it either. They were so old and sick, both almost 45. Way passed the age where they could do anything useful.

She was completely on her own. Fine, she preferred it that way.