Peder cursed, and then ducked a sword thrust that was aimed at his head. It was a powerful blow, and would have broken his nose if he hadn’t moved out of the way.

“Watch it, Gretchen. Spawn, you almost broke my nose.”

The burly woman paused, than glared at him, breathing hard. “Well if you weren’t trying to be all fancy, you wouldn’t get hurt. Just duck and stab like you’ve been taught. The Northerners won’t be impressed by fancy. Or else I will break that pretty nose of yours.”

Peder grimaced. “But, I’m faster than that. And this move works better.” To demonstrate, he reached out with his hardwood sword, hooked it behind her arm, and pulled. Her hard-sword popped from her hand, and she glowered at him.

“But, tricks like that don’t work against this.” She charged, slamming her left arm with the Nayt’s shield on it into his chest. He sprawled backwards, landing in the dirt of the training yard. He had grown inches over the last year, and his balance hadn’t yet caught up with his body.

She reached down to help the young man to his feet. He was embarrassed. Gretchen was years older than him, but he was taller and faster. Still, she had taken him down with just a shield. That stupid new shield design that Nayt had made had caught on and now all of the guards had bought one. It was perfect for protecting against sword swipes, and could be used as a weapon as well. Right now, he wanted to smash it on Nayt’s head.

There were 20 guardsmen and women in town, and it seemed that most of them were in the yard smirking at him.

Peder grunted, and rubbed his aching ribs. Gretchen might not be much to look at, but she was strong as an ox. She could run like a horse as well, and Peder had to push hard to keep up with her shorter muscular legs on patrols. Gretchen looked like she was descended from an ox and a horse. He wondered who would win a fight between her and one of the Servitors in the Sept. It would likely be close.

Peder felt a tap on his shoulder. He turned and popped to attention when he saw Captain Willis standing behind him. The grey haired man stared at him, then sighed. He was dressed in a grey wolfskin cloak with the sigil proclaiming him leader of the towns guard, which we wore despite the heat of the day.

“At Ease, guardsman. You have been daydreaming all morning. You needed a reminder to pay attention. Why don’t you go change into your uniform and take the East patrol. If you aren’t going to focus today, you’ll only get hurt during practice.”

It was a painful dismissal, but one Peder thought he likely deserved. He had spending a lot of time looking up sword moves using the magic sight, when he should have been watching Gretchen. He ran to his room in the barracks and changed, carefully pulling the dark guard’s smock over his bruised ribs. 

Looking around to make sure he was alone, Peder whispered. Hey Nayt. I’m heading out on a quick patrol. Want to meet up?

Nayt answered, appearing in the air next to him, causing Peder to jump in fright. He wore a heavy grey apron and holding a large scooper full of sand over a fire. Sure, man. Meet at the Healer’s in ten minutes? I’ve just got to finish this windowpane.

Peder nodded and Nayt’s image disappeared. He still wasn’t as good at this magic stuff as his friend was. When he spoke to Nayt, only his voice went across. Nayt was able to make images appear, and could talk to his demons without even moving his lips.

They met up at the healer’s shack, which was halfway at the guard barracks and the Weavery.

“Hoi Nayt, your eye’s looking a lot better. How are the ribs?”

“Still hurt. That man has fists like rocks.”

Peder smiled and playfully punched Nayt in the arm. “Hah. Nothing could stop the town hero.”

Nayt groaned, then rubbed his arm. Peder knew his friend loved the newfound attention he was getting after saving Sitta Aimee. Saba Takkai had called the entire town together the day that it happened and told them everything, how a quick-thinking Nayt had gotten free of a robe and almost died to save the Sitta. Since then, it had been all roses and smiles for hiss friend. It was like all the bullying that Saba Takkai had done to keep people from buying Nayt’s items at the Weavery had flipped. Suddenly, everyone wanted one of the Town Hero’s newest inventions.

Peder acted as though meeting Nayt was a happy coincidence, so as not to bring any suspicions in case the Sabaa were watching. They had found that it was pretty easy to listen in on any conversation that happened in town, but could not listen in on people’s houses or private buildings. There were some other rules that he couldn’t quite figure out; you could only listen in on people if there were three of them outside, or four of them beyond the town perimeter. Or something like that. It was all over his head.

Both Nayt and Salazaar kept reminding him to be more careful about the magic powers, but Peder couldn’t keep track of all the details and schemes the two kept coming up with. And, the Sabaa loved Nayt now that he was the town hero. They would never suspect him of anything.

They verbally talked aloud about small things as they walked the perimeter of the town. But, they used their magic voices to have a second subvocalized conversation with each other so that no one would hear. This way any Sabaa that were watching them would hear only two boys talking about their day. It was a trick he was still getting used to. Peder’s magical demon, a large walking sword that he called Bastard walked along invisibly with them.

 There were acres of farms around the small town, which made the normal 10 minutes walk around town take an hour. Peder loved the walk and kept thinking that they might catch some evil northman scouts.

The multiple conversations were confusing to Peder, so he mostly only subvocalized his talking. Nayt, however, could seamlessly carry on two conversations with him. Sometimes, Peder thought Nayt was also talking to Salazaar as well, but couldn’t be sure.

Peder was amazed at how quickly Nayt was picking up the magic. It was hard because many of the controls were in the Old Language. Peder had seen it in a number of the books that his father had, but had never understood it. Nayt was figuring it out very quickly, and had new tricks to show him each day.

Nayt had demonstrated how to ask Bastard questions of any type. Since then Peder had been researching new fighting styles called Martial Arts. The sword’s magic would build pictures in his mind that showed him exactly how to stand, and where to reach or how to grab. Nayt said that he had a book in his head instead of a sword, which Peder thought was silly, but just like Nayt.

Peder had come up with something of his own for which he was quite proud. He had found a way to send what he was looking at to Nayt, and have Nayt send his own view back. When they were close it formed together into a single stitched-together picture. The cool part was that when Peder closed his eyes he could still see what Nayt saw and vice versa. The fighting benefits were immense. If someone were to attack him from behind, he would be able to see it. With a little concentration, he would be able to fight an entire battle blindfolded. Whenever they walked together, they would synch their visions and Peder would imagine fighting or battling groups of armed opponents this way.

Peder asked “How’s Jayna?”

Nayt answered out loud “Fine” then started telling some story. Using the magic, however, he began pulling up messages from the group and showing them in the air so that only the two could see. 

Peder, pay attention. I said that the Group has some new rules that we should follow. I guess the Sabaa found one of the meeting places and were able to kill White Wolf and two others yesterday. Have you been reading the messages?

Peder answered, trying not to move his lips as he replied, I told you, those things are boring. White Wolf seemed like an idiot anyway.

Nayt scowled. This is important. People are dying. There are only 30 of us in the Group, and the Sabaa might find out who we are if we aren’t careful.

Peder thought the names on the Group were dumb. The rule was that you couldn’t use your real name, and so Peder called himself Slayer, while Nayt was named Apollo. White Wolf had been one of the outspoken guys, always posting messages about how evil the Sabaa were and how he was making weapons to give the slavers to attack them. Pretty stupid to be so obvious about it. Plus, the Sabaa weren’t that bad. They were the religious leaders of the world, and honestly helped people. Peder didn’t understand such extremism.

Why did he always want to kill people? And those slaver guys are bad news. They tried to kill you, didn’t they? I know they have metal to spare, but a hard-sword kills just as quickly as a metal sword does.

Nayt sighed. They had similar conversations before. Because metal can me made into many other things, more powerful than weapons. Did you look at the designs I sent you from the archives? The ancients used to make metal flying machines and all kinds of crazy inventions.

It sounded a lot like his dad when he started talking about the amazing things he would build if he only had metal. In Peder’s experience, his dad (or, step-dad as he now thought of him) spent too much time thinking about things and not enough time doing them.

Nayt continued telling a story out loud, but kept sending the subvocal messages. I’m just saying, we should think about going to the Capitol and joining with them someday. I don’t want to help the slavers, and I don’t want to hurt any of the Sabaa, but I think more people should be able to have magic.

Peder laughed out loud. Nayt scowled and shot him a look, and Peder realized that out loud, Nayt was telling a sad story about a man who broke his leg. It was too hard to keep both conversations in his head.

We’ll go, but not for a few more years. I still need to practice my sword fighting. I am going to be the best swordsman in the world, but I still need practice. And you, my friend, will be the best Weaver in the world. But that’s going to take us a while. Plus, what about Jayna? You can’t just leave her and say you’re going to go off to be a demon worshipper?

There are no such thing as demons. Jayna was still a sore topic between them and one Nayt obviously didn’t want to discuss.

Jayna was getting more serious lately, and Peder kept giving Nayt woman advice. Peder shook his head; still amazed that Nayt hadn’t gone farther than kissing her. He had found moving pictures using his magic that showed exactly what to do with women. Nayt always blushed furiously when he send him those, however. They were more interesting than Nayt’s videos of big metal flying birds.

Look. I’m just saying that we need to get better established first. All the people in the Group are so much older than us. They all talk about their jobs and kids, and have done so much that we still need to learn.

Peder, all of them became awakened when they were older. We have Salazaar helping us, and we’ll be more powerful than any of them because we’re younger and quicker. And we have the royal abilities that no one else does. Plus, I don’t think we should fight with the Sabaa. We could just show them that the magic isn’t bad.

Peder shrugged. To be honest he didn’t want to leave. He liked their town, liked their life. He would like it more if he had a woman like Jayna, but that was a different issue.

Nayt, I just think we should stay and learn more instead of going out for some grand adventure. Just cause you’re the town hero doesn’t mean you should be running off and getting us all killed. Or worse, retired.

They had reached the end of the tow, close to Nayt’s small home, and the other poorer homes on this end of the Pent. They saw Zeke Bauer and his friend Vince off in the distance, screaming at some of the farmhands about picking soy beans faster and making hay bales. Vince was a giant of a man, and followed Zeke everywhere. Peder and Nayt both scowled and turned around to walk back the other direction.

I just want to go someplace where the Sabaa don’t control everything. People only buy what they say to, and the taxes… I mean, I made only 12 crowns total from selling everything over the past two months. They took half of all of my profits. Half!”

Taxes were a common complaint, and one that Peder’s adopted-father would frequently grumble about from the sales at the Weavery. Master Peyton took an additional ten percent off of all sales for use of equipment and materials, which further upset the towns craftsmen. Peder again just shrugged.

Peder was paid a salary to be part of the towns-guard, and so didn’t have to work as hard for his money. And, his parents had a large house and paid for anything he wanted. He lived pretty well for a teenager.

They stopped for a minute when they saw Darf sitting on a wooden fence watching a few of the wheat cutters work the fields on Alde’s farm. The fence marked the boundary from Farmer Bauer's massive fields to the North and Farmer Alte’s fields to the west of where the poorer homes were. Darf was a few years older then them but had always been friendly. He was Peder’s second-cousin.

"Good morning, sunshine!" Peder always called Darf that as he had bright albino white skin.

Darf waved in his slow drawn-out manner.  “Hoi, Peder. Hoi Nayt.”

He never put much energy into anything. He was sketching on a pad of paper. Nayt went over to get a closer look. Darf had been drawing the ox with baskets that the field hands were walking with.

Nayt asked his fellow weaver, "Hey Darf, what are you drawing?" 

Darf shrugged. "Peder's dad told me that we should try to be creative while the Sabaa allow us. He gave me the task to make a better basket for them oxen. I was thinking about moving the straps back to save leather, but am afraid the baskets might tip over."

Peder’s eyes went wide. It was a pretty blunt thing to say. He was pretty sure his dad wouldn’t have said it exactly like that. It almost sounded… sacrilegious. 

Nayt looked at the drawing, then up at the oxen. They had finished one section of the field and turned around to walk back towards them. Three field hands were guiding the ox, constantly picking up wheat to toss into the baskets. Didn't that hurt their backs?

"What if you made something behind the oxen to pull. Like a wooden post that would knock over wheat and make it fall into a basket?"

Peder looked also, then said, "What about making it a big sword behind them? It could cut the wheat."

Both weavers laughed at the absurd concept, and Peder blushed. He had never been very good at those kinds of what-if games.

Nayt reached over, and pulled a pencil from his pocket to add to the sketch. “Yeah, Peder's right. Make it like a hard-sword blade. I bet it'd save at least half of the effort. Maybe even put wheels on it so that it could be heavier. I mean, it doesn’t look like a regular plow, but might work.”

They left Darf scribbling ideas in his book. After a few steps, Nayt stopped and put his arm across Peder’s chest. Do you see that?

Peder looked around, but everything appeared peaceful.

No, here. On the map. Peder usually didn’t have his map up while he walked, as he got distracted and didn’t want to trip over something unseen on the ground. Nayt was much more skilled with it and Peder knew that he had maps and many other things always floating in front of his vision.

He looked at the ghostly map, and didn’t see anything. Then, in the top left corner of town, he saw a small dot running south. The longer he looked, the more it zoomed in until the word Fiona was written under the dot. The dot was blinking red. A big circle around town was blinking, and next to it red words said Alarm - Metal.

“Come on!”

Nayt took off running in that direction, and Peder ran to follow, cursing at his friend’s lack of secrecy. Who’s being subtle now, he thought? Any Saba watching the map would see her red dot and the two boys charging at her. It would look even more suspicious.

Book, why is her dot blinking? Nayt asked, panting. 

The book appeared next to Peder’s sword, running along with them on comically elongated legs.

Hi! Fiona is carrying a forbidden object into the town. This is listed as a High Offense and anyone watching a local town map is alerted. Anyone within 200 strides of her will be alerted.

Oh, spawn. Peder cursed. Let’s go stop her before she gets close enough to the Sitta.

Could that girl not stay out of trouble? Nayt turned, and ran down the street towards his house.

Wait a sec, I need to grab something. Nayt ran into his front door and came out a minute later carrying his father’s large sword, which he handed to Peder. Let’s go!

Peder shook his head, but kept on running behind the smaller boy. He always wanted to hold his real father’s sword, and now he was. It was so much heavier than he imagined. What was he thinking? They weren’t going to threaten a Sabaa, were they?

Nayt asked, Where are the Sabaa?

The book cheerfully spoke up Two Sabaa are in the Sept and two are in the schoolhouse. They will be alerted in ten minutes if she continues at that pace. But Sitta Naani is walking nearby. She will come within range and be alerted in less than a minute.

Peder said, Demon Spawns! Nayt, you go get her out of town bounds. I’ll distract the Sitta.

Looking to the right, Peder saw that Sitta Naani was walking down the path towards town. He turned and slowed down to walk towards her, while Nayt kept running towards Fiona.

He got his breathing under control.

“Ma’am? Sitta?” He called out, panting only a little and walking up to her on the side away from where Fiona was coming from.

She was a big woman, with a massive chest larger even that his. Her hair was tied tightly into severe buns, and she was scowling at him.

 “Sitta?” He asked her again, “I need some help.”

That caught her attention. “What do you want, guardsman?”

He pulled up short at that. Sitta Naani didn’t remember his name? He had been in her numbers class two years ago. She certainly had yelled at him enough then. Over her shoulder in the distance, he saw Nayt meet up with Fiona and usher her towards the Old tower.

“And why are you carrying that sword? Such metal is extremely dangerous. What do you need help with?”

Um, what had he said? He thought furiously. Oh, he needed help. What would he need help in?

“Um. Math.” It was the first thing that popped into his head. 

“Math?” She asked, surprised.

“Um, yes. My parents run the Weavery. And, I wanted to help my mom with the accounting. But I already graduated.” It was the least appealing thing that he could imagine, but the only thing that came to him.

The giant woman seemed to take an interest, though.

“Continuing adult education is important. Very well. Come to the Sept after your shift. We will work for three hours every night this week. And I turned off the alarms so your sword is allowed, just don’t bring it to classes.”

“Thank you, Sitta.”

“You will address me as Sitta Naani, guardsman. Are you a believer in the Seven?”

It was a direct question, and Peder proudly answered “Yes, Sitta Naani! I’m a devout follower of the Three.”

“Good man. The Three will be our saviors. They will bring us eternal life.”

She turned, and walked off, humming to herself. Peder thought she was probably pretty happy with herself for that impromptu sermon.

Peder stood frowning at her as she left. Math. He hated math. As soon as she was a few more paces away, the map reappeared in his vision. He breathed a sigh of relief when he saw that there were no more red dots or alarms.

Nayt and Fiona were both off the map and he swore. How had they disappeared? He really needed Nayt to show his some of these magic tricks.

Peder saw that there was a message waiting for him from Nayt. He made sure no one was physically around him, then reached out and touched it. There was a moving image of the map showing that his two friends had both quickly moved into the Old Tower and disappeared off the map. Nayt was such a showoff. Peder had no idea how to record pictures that way.

He sighed, homework. For a week. Math. This day could not get any worse.