“This day could not get any better!” Nayt said.

He and Fiona were in the Old Tower. She had been hesitant to enter the haunted place until Nayt had told her that Sitta Naani was about to find her. Her face contorted in an angry frown when he said the priestess's name. 

Nayt checked his map and saw that they had disappeared from the display. Something about the Old Tower hid anyone nearby from magic maps. His book couldn’t explain why, but it confirmed that many devices used to exist that could make certain information like location private. Maybe the invisible man from the North had something like that. Nayt had later watched the video of their fight, and seen him get up and stumble off into the forest after Aimee had clunked him with the rock. Unfortunately, one of the Sabaa had apparently gone back and added a privacy block on her so that when he looked she was no longer naked and seemed to be covered with a dark cloud.

Nayt shook his head and blushed. Fiona had something amazing and he needed to stop thinking of Aimee.

Nayt stared at the large metal object that Fiona clutched. She stared at him with worry. Did she think Nayt would turn her in to the Sabba?

“It came off of a demon.”

He sighed, “There is no such thing as demons.”

He glanced up at her; appalled that he had said that out loud. Such sacrilege is punishable by death by the Sabaa. Good thing their conversations were protected from searching while in the Old Tower.

“I mean…”

She waved her hand dismissively. “I have no love for the Sabaa. They killed my brother, too.”

Nayt gulped, then nodded. He had to be more careful. “We can’t say these type of things anywhere else. This tower is protected from them. They can hear anything that’s said in town. Do you understand?”

She nodded then stared at him for a minute. “How do you know that?”

He changed the subject. “Tell me about this thing you found.”

It was about three feet long, and made of many smaller pieces of metal. There were other things inside it, small pieces made of a softer thread-like lines. Knife-like claws were on one edge, and the end was tipped with four finger-like pincers. He touched them, and they were both soft and hard. It was the most amazing thing he had ever seen.

Nayt pulled at one of the strands dangling from inside the hollow tube of metal. He pulled it, and one of the pincers at the top opened and closed. He reached out and used it to pick up a pebble.

“I think it was the thing’s arm. Is it valuable?”

”By the Searcher. An arm?” He swung it, and it bent in the middle and where the wrist would have been. “Oh, I see. But it’s made of metal.”

“That’s what I said! It was a metal demon. Guarding someplace.”

Nayt said, “Look, it’s got tiny little gears on one side of it. And lines of something. Kinda looks like blood vessels, but harder. And, little holes in the outside where it must have broken off of something. This thing must be worth… 200 crowns, at least. I’ve never seen anything like it. You have to take me there, Fiona.”

Nayt pulled up the rebel message board that he and Peder were members of, and posted a question asking about metal creatures with arms like pincers. Hopefully someone could give him advice. He tried searching on metal arms or metal gears, but was overwhelmed by millions of results. Too much information, he needed to find the basics first.

“No, Nayt. Absolutely not. That place is dangerous.” She looked at Nayt, like she wanted to tell him more.

A voice appeared in Nayt’s ear. Peder was calling him. “Nayt, I hope you’re happy. Demons, that lady is evil.”

He answered sub-vocally, “You should come see this. We’re in the top of the tower.”

A voice answered from down the stairs, but out loud and behind them rather than in his head. Fiona jumped in panic. “I see that. Hoi, Fido. How you doin’?”

Fiona had grabbed the metal arm and hid it behind her back.

Peder grinned at the gleaming hand that was obviously sticking out from behind her head. “By the Seven, that thing is bigger than you are. What did you find?”

She looked at Nayt for support, holding the long metal object in one hand and a dagger in the other. Nayt blinked. The dagger had seemed to appeared out of nowhere.

Peder quickly struck out with one finger, jabbing the nerve cluster in her left shoulder. She was naturally fast, but he had been practicing that move for over a month. She humpfed and dropped the dagger, which Peder caught easily in midair.

Peder said, “To bad Gretchen couldn’t see that. You know you shouldn’t wave weapons at the towns guard. And, aren’t you supposed to be at your apprenticeship in the Weavery?”

Fiona scowled, “Your dad sent me to collect saltsap. I just found something else. See?” she turned to show three bulging flasks on her hip.

Nayt answered, “Fi, It’s OK. Peder should see this too. Don’t worry; he won’t turn you in to the Sabaa. Will you Peder?”

Peder shook his head, “No, not me. Secrets are safe, and all that.”

He reached out quickly and pretended that he was going to pinch her shoulder again. Fiona squeaked, then dropped the metal arm. It clattered on the ground and Peder muttered “Spawn…” when he saw the full thing.

Fiona turned and quickly lashed out, grabbing the little pinky of Peder’s left hand. She bent it backwards up to his wrist. It was his turn to squeak and he fell to his knees with eyes wide. He hissed in pain, “Stop, stop. Spawn! I give up.”

Nayt watched as Fiona stepped to the side of the much bigger Peder who was kneeling before her. He raised his hand to intervene, then lowered them. He picked up the metal arm instead. Peder had been teasing Fiona a lot lately. He would let her handle this.

Fiona quietly said in a calm voice, “Stop grabbing me. I don’t like it. Understand?”

Peder sucked in a breath through clenched teeth. “OK, I understand. I’ll stop. I’m sorry.”

Fiona released Peder’s finger. He snatched his hand back and rubbed it, glaring at her.

Nayt spoke up into the silence, holding the metal object between the two. He waited until Peder focused on it.“We think it’s an arm. Fiona said there’s a metal demon in a cave that was injured. She’s thinking of selling this.”

Peder’s eyes got wide and he stood up, temporarily forgetting his inured finger. He reached out to touch the arm.

Peder whistled. “My dad would pay a ton for that, but my mom would kill him. Except, things like that are forbidden. The Sabaa would take it immediately if they knew. In fact, you probably can’t ever get it out of here. Their magic would see this if you came any closer to town. They would take it and kill you.”

Fiona shrank, shaking her head. She looked desperate.

“Are you sure? Can’t we take it to some other town? Or melt it? I really need the money.”

Nayt turned to her, “I’m sure. They will know instantly. They almost saw you today, you know. But Peder saved you. You have to hide it here because they can’t see what goes on in this tower.”

Fiona glanced at him questioningly.

Nayt looked the arm over, “And I don’t think you’d have much luck in melting it. Maybe if we could build a really big fire, or put it in the main forge for a few hours…”

Nayt saw that Fiona was clenching her teeth. Her hands were formed into fists and she looked ready to cry. He stepped up and put his hand gently on her shoulder to comfort her.

“Hey Fi, it’s OK. This was an amazing find. I’ll tell you what. I’ve got 5 crowns saved. I know it’s not worth a portion of this thing, but you can have them if I can keep it here and study it. If we find someway to get it out of here, you can sell it and give me the 5 crowns back. What do you say?”

He held them out to her. She thought about it for a moment then reached out and pocketed the wooden coins.

Fiona said, “5 now, and 10 more in two weeks. You said it’s worth at least a few hundred crowns. It’s a bargain, right?”

Nayt sighed. She was an excellent negotiator. He would need to come up with something new and clever to create and sell to make up for the difference. “Deal.”

Peder spoke up, “And you have to show us this cave. Nayt was just saying he wants an adventure. This looks perfect for him.”