It took another week before they could all meet up and to find excuses to go unnoticed. Peder complained bitterly about his time spent with the Sitta, and forswore math entirely. 

Jayna was not very happy when Nayt broke a date with her to go into the forest with Fiona instead, and had let him and half the block know about her displeasure. Fiona of course had heard all the details and was quite pleased. 

Fiona had been dreading the trip all week and was considering just not going. On the last day before she was going to cancel with Nayt, her father’s leg became heavily inflamed. She decided that it might be worth one more trip, especially if she could find something of value to sell. At least Nayt would get her 10 more crowns next week. Enough for medicine for her parents for another month or two. If she didn’t get him help beyond that, they might actually have to ask the Sabaa to retire him. She clenched her jaw muscles. Never. She would find a way to keep him alive.

Nayt's had brought his father’s sword, and given it to Peder to carry. He sure seemed trusting with his money, she thought. She looked at the sword hungrily. That much pressed steel would buy an entire healers shop and food for years. It was long and looked incredibly sharp, and had two types of metal in it. She was glad Peder had brought it along for protection.

She ground her teeth as they approached the area where the boat had been. She hated this place. 

Fiona poked through the fake wall with a stick.

“See? It’s magic.”

Nayt shook his head. “There is no magic.” But he looked impressed.

Nayt walked up to the magic wall and stared around it, tracing the outline of the opening with his hand perfectly. She was about to tell him where it was, but he seemed able to either sense it or see through it. He stepped inside, and she gasped.

“Be careful. The spider lives in there.”

Peder stepped up behind them, grinning. “Don’t worry. We have Fido the monster killer with us. You’ll keep us safe, right?”

She was getting tired of his teasing. She pulled out her knives. She sharpened them yesterday, and the points of hardwood glistened with newly applied and hardened wax. Hopefully they could damage the spider if necessary.

Peder pulled Nayt’s metal sword from his scabbard. “I have one, too. It’s a little bigger.”

She shrugged and then stepped in after Nayt.

Nayt had walked into the cave, and was kneeling on the ground staring at everything. 

Fiona and Peder waited for Nayt to stand. He looked like he was in a trance only quickly moving his fingers and pinching them in the air. She whispered to Peder, “Is he praying? He looks like when a Saba prays.”

Peder just shook his head and shushed her.

Nayt looked up at Peder and said, “Off the map here, too. Book isn't working. He can’t answer questions about anything outside. Like he’s cut off.”

“What?” She asked, but Peder just nodded at him.

Nayt shook his head at her. “Never mind. You said the monster went down this way?”

Fiona frowned at him. He was acting so weird lately. He obviously had some secret, something that he knew about the Sabaa. After his heroics last month, had they told him something about their magic? Had he learned something about their weaknesses? She needed to know.

“Yes. When I came back, the demon was gone and the arm was lying there by that broken wood.”

“It looks like a barrel. I wonder why a barrel was here.”

Fiona shrugged. She didn’t want to tell them about Farmer Bauer. At first, she though he was dealing with slavers. But now she wasn’t sure. She had came back a few days later when she knew he was working his fields and found the arm under the broken apple barrel. The spider was nowhere to be seen.

Peder stepped forward. He was so boisterous. She wanted to kick him. He said, “OK, I have the torch. Shall we go have our adventure? May the Three guide us and the Four ignore us. Let’s go!”

Fiona’s stomach clenched. “What? Go deeper in the cave? Down that tunnel? Are you serious?”

He looked at her, “Don’t worry Fi. Our danger sense will let us know if there’s a problem. Plus, you have all those pointy knives.”

She looked down and realized that her small daggers would be ineffectual against the demon. In the dark cool cave, they looked very small. She put them away and took the torch from Peder. She struck a flint and then lit it, holding it above her head so that pitch would drip away from her.

"What's that smell? It's like..."

"Rotting vegetables" she finished. If anything, the air was much worse than the last time she'd been in here. The odor of rotten lettuce and decaying mushrooms made her pull her cloth shirt up over her nose. Peder and Nayt coughed at the stink.

Nayt pointed at the wall, “Look, there are scratches here. And writing up top. And, there are some small metal bits down here.” He picked up a few small pieces from where she had previously found the arm.

Nayt read aloud from the wall, “Storage Facility 7.”

Fiona stared at the letter marks. They made no sense to her. “How can you read that? That’s not writing.”

Nayt glanced at Peder, then back to her. He said “I saw it in one of Master Peytons books."

Peder pointed to the scratches. They were all up and down the walls but only on the left sided. As if some fierce animal we struggling to hold on.

Nayt's crouched and picked up all the metal bits he could find. He put them in one of his many pouches.

"Hey, those are mine!" she wouldn't let him keep all the rewards. That metal was probably worth a few crowns.

Nayt's said, "Let's split everything we find three-ways. Agreed?"

She sighed. It was probably fair. "Agreed.”

Peder just nodded. He was rich anyway, what did he care?

Peder rubbed his arms and was looking around into every shadow. He was smiling, though she thought looked a little nervous. He said, "The writing means it's safe. Let’s go deeper.”

Fiona looked at him sideways, distrustfully. How would he know.

Peder saw her glance and retorted, “And what would you know, Fido? You missed half of school this year going out hunting.”

She dropped the issue and continued on, shivering. It had been so hot in the July weather outside, but now she longed for her deerskin coat.

They creeped forward and Fiona became more and more tense with every step. She had been watching Farmer Bauer all week. She wanted to come alone with Nayt, but also wanted Peder’s large sword arm just in case there was danger. His teasing and bravado however made her wonder if his presence was really worth the annoyance.

All week, Farmer Bauer had not taken the raft up river. She'd walked by his fields at least four times each day to spy on his activities. She was more convinced that he only went during Testings, and there wasn’t another one scheduled until next week.

At the bottom of the cave, the floor stopped sloping after about one hundred paces. The walls were perfectly flat. Unnaturally so. Peder kept rubbing his hands over them, trying to guess at how the stone was made to be so smooth. She didn't care. It was probably some evil demon magic. But, he looked fascinated, and was starting to babble about how he might build a digging machine that could carve walls. She was a Weaver too, but just wasn't as interested in it as him. She mostly liked the job for the chance to make arrows and the free clothes.

An archway raised above them. Looking up, she saw that the ceiling was perfectly flat even while the floor had sloped down. It was way up there, higher than the light of her torch reached. She thought she heard bats squeaking and shuddered. It would be the perfect spot for a spider to drop from and they were walking right underneath it.

They entered the archway, Peder walking first with his sword out. He suddenly stopped, causing her to bump into his back.

“What? What do you see?” she asked, voice quavering. Peder was so big, she tried to shrink behind him. Her belly was buzzing faintly with the danger sense.

“Your demon.”