Nayt marveled at the metal creature standing before them. It was large, taller than he was. It had three arms, two on each side with one missing on the left. It stood watching them, with red glowing eyes on top of a stalk in its head. There was a glass metal ball under its torso, with blinking lights inside it.

He had read responses from his message on the rebel boards saying that there were many rumors of metal creatures, and lots of rumors that the old people had used metal guardians to do work for them. No one admitted to seeing any recently.

Book, what is that?

Book appeared, standing beside him, but only shown as a simple flat image. None of the usual flair.

Maintenance/labor robot. Model SPD-R4. Attacked. Damaged.

Book, I have no idea what those words mean. Forget it, I’ll ask more later. Is it dangerous?

Book had become much less responsive after they entered the cave. Nayt had asked what was going on when his map and most of the images he kept in his vision suddenly disappeared. Book said something about losing network connection, and that he had only minimum functions while in the cave. Like most things involving Book's power, Nayt would remember the words and look them up later. Unfortunately, it seemed that every answer Book gave led to five more questions.

For example, Nayt had asked what he thought was a simple question; How do you make a wooden box? There were many answers, and most involved using screws or nails. When he looked up what those were, he was amazed that they were small joining objects made of metal. Why would he buy 30 crowns worth of metal to join less than a crown of wood together? The answers just didn’t make sense all the time. It was a lot easier to just read through many of the documents, but you could easily get lost in all of the reading and amazing stories.

Nayt held on to his backpack, thinking about pulling out the knife he had inside it. He had brought that knife, Dom’s special coin, and a few other weaving materials like saltsap. Anything that might be useful in making repairs.

Nayt didn’t quite understand what was going on, but realized that there was something special about this place. It was frustrating, though. He had just gotten used to having many windows up showing data from the world, and now they were gone. He felt naked.

Book responded to his earlier question, It is not dangerous to humans. It is trying to communicate. I do not know its complete language. It asks for orders.

Nayt translated to his friends, “Don’t worry. It won’t hurt us. Let’s she what it’s guarding.”

Fiona was pushing herself as far towards the wall as possible. She was trembling. “We can’t leave it behind us. Look at all of those knives on it’s hand. How do you know it’s safe?”

Book repeated, It asks for orders.

Nayt spoke, “Go to the front of the cave. Warn us if anyone comes in.”

The giant spider spoke and Nayt flinched backwards and saw Peder and Fiona do the same. “OK.”

It turned and walked off, using its spider-like legs to pick a path up the sloped floor. The snicker-snack of it's limbs was rhythmic.

Fiona continued watching it warily, but Peder let out a low whistle when he looked around the room.

The cavern was vast, larger than any room he had ever seen. It was like something out of one of the movies. It must be hundreds of paces in each direction. Larger than the torchlight would reach, but there was a soft glowing green light along the walls. The outline was freaky; the room seemed to go on forever. Tendrils of green smoke gently drifted from an inset floor, and a rotten scent permeated the air.

Peder spoke, “I bet this is what an ant feels like when it walks into Farmer Bauer’s house. Tiny.”

Nayt turned around, trying to take it all in. Impossibly vast, it must be built right into the hill. How could the walls hold up so much rock? The entire place couldn't be made of metal, could it?

Fiona pointed. A few strides in front of them, the floor dropped off. It appeared to be a pool of water. Some sort of lake. There were dark lumps in the water, clustered close to them. Hundreds of lumps. 

Fiona said, “They look like frog eggs floating in a pond at night.”

Nayt pointed asked rhetorically “What are those?”

Book was still standing by him and answered. Storage.

Peder had heard book speaking, as Nayt had asked book to show himself to his friend as well. Peder nodded, then said “I guess those are barrels. But what is being stored in them?”

Fiona spoke up. “Food. Apples. Lettuce.”

Nayt asked, “What? How do you know that?” There was a distinct smell of vegetables in the air. It smelled like a farm, but rotten.

Fiona sighed. She started speaking then stopped again. The torch wavered as she seemed to be fighting with herself. Finally, she told them the story of Farmer Bauer and the cave, leaving out that she had been following him to try to save Nayt.

When she was finished, Peder whistled again. “Fiona the slayer. You’ve got guts, girl.” She blushed.

Nayt nodded, and turned back to the barrels. Book showed him a count. “There are two hundred and twenty barrels here. He must have been storing food for decades. This is why he’s so rich. He stores cheap food here in the summer, and takes it out to sell in winter for a huge profit.”

Fiona was astounded. She said “I thought he was partnering with slavers or magic. Instead he was just using, what do the Sabaa call it, economics?”

Peder said something surprisingly logical. “That doesn’t make sense. It would rot. Food doesn’t last for decades.”

Nayt asked Book, Does food rot in here?

Book answered simply, No.

Nayt groaned. It was like pulling teeth. He missed the more talkative version of Book. Why not?

Book gave a long complex answer, involving words like stasis and energy. He had no clue what it meant.

“Ah,” they both said, then laughed at each other. 

Fiona was staring at them, and began shaking the torch. “What? ‘Ah’, what? What aren’t you telling me? You two are hiding something, and I’m tired of it.”

She stamped her foot, and started walking back up the ramp. “In fact, I’m done with this place. Done with the two of you. Done with Bauer. I’m out of here.”

“Fido, by the Father, wait!” Peder stepped up to grab her, and she pushed him back. Hard.

Nayt felt the tingling in his chest. The same warning of danger as when he was attacked last month. He leapt backwards, crouching to cover his face.

Fiona grunted as Peder fell off the edge and into the green watery field. A wave of heat rolled across them, and the air in the room warmed noticeably.

He froze in place immediately upon entering the water, and slowly drifted towards the bottom of the pool. He was as still as a stature.

Peder’s eyes glinted in the torchlight, tinged green. Fiona shrieked. His eyes were lifeless. He was dead.