Fiona dropped the torch upon the stone and ran forward. She was about to jump in after Peder when Nayt grabbed her arm.

“Stop!” he commanded.

She stopped, shocked at the tone from Nayt’s usually calm voice.

Tears welled up in her eyes. Peder was rude and always teasing her, but he didn’t deserve to die from some demon magic.

Nayt spoke into the empty air. “Book, is he dead?”

Nayt listened, then nodded. “He’s not dead. Just like the food, he’s frozen in place. Storage.”

“Won’t he freeze?” Fiona hated winter, hated being cold. Hated this cave and the spider and Peder for taunting her.

“Not that kind of frozen. I think anything in that green water is stopped. We just need to get him out of there.”

Fiona moved to stand right in front of him, leaning forward. She was tired of this, tired of his games. She clenched her fist in frustration. Nayt knew more than he was telling her. Much more. It was almost like he had become one of the Sabaa.

“Who is Book?” Fiona demanded.

Nayt paused, not meeting her gaze.

“Tell me!”

“OK, OK. Just wait a second.” Nayt flicked his fingers and a ghost appeared next to her. It was a glowing white book with white legs.

“Hello Fiona.”

Her hands went over her mouth and turned to stare at Nayt. Her eyes widened and suddenly her dagger was in her hand. She stepped forward, pointing it at him.

“I knew it! The Sabaa gave you their power. Last month, when you saved Aimee. They made you one of them!”

Nayt’s hands went up, shielding his face. “No, no. Fi, stop. No.”

He looked so pitiful cowering there standing next to the square-shaped ghost. Where was his magic now? Was this all a trap to get her treasure? Were they coming to kill her, to retire her now? She looked around for another exit. The room was huge, but might have some doors on the other side of the cavern.

“Stop, Fi. I’m not a Sabaa or anything like that. I’m hiding this from them. They don’t know.”

She suddenly realized what was going on. The Demons had gotten to him. Maybe he and her brother had been sneaking around worshipping them all along. How come they hadn’t caught Nayt, but they had caught Leo?

She raised the dagger again point it at his face. “You’re a demon worshipper? Magic?”

He stammered. “No. Well, Yes, I guess. But it’s nothing like that. There’s no worshipping.”

Nayt continued, “It’s not really magic or demons. It’s… something that all people can do once we turn fifteen. The Sabaa just make us cancel it out every year. I didn’t cancel it, so I can make pictures like this appear to anyone. If you have the power, you would see through it. It’s not evil. It’s something everyone was born with. The Sabaa are just tricking us. Somehow Leo didn’t turn it off, that’s why the killed him.”

The fight had gone out of her. She took a deep breath, almost coughing at the fragrance of potatoes and cloves.

She lowered the dagger, dropping the wooden blade to the rocks. She sat, and cradled her face in her hands.

Nayt sat down in front of her. He tentatively reached out and patted her shoulder. She wasn’t sure if she should hug him or punch him. She settled for putting her hand on top of his. They sat there quietly for a few minutes, not saying anything.

She looked up, staring from him to the ghost. Was this a demon? A real demon? It looked like a drawing of a book with legs hanging in the air. Something like a kid would paint in class with the ink from berries. 

Nayt had called it a ‘picture’. It must be just like the fake wall at the front of the cave and looked totally solid. She stuck her hand out to touch it, and her fingers went through the image. She yanked them back then stared at her fingers. She hadn’t felt anything, no tingle, nothing. But it looked so solid, just like the door of the cave.

She had to get them back on track, to focus on the immediate problem.

“But what about Peder? How do we save him?”

Nayt asked the ghost, “Book, how can we get Peder out of storage?”

Book answered, pointing with a long black arm ending in a white glove. “The robot can extract him.”

They both turned to look through the archway and up the ramp. The silhouette of the large spider was up there. She shuddered. She didn’t want that metal demon anywhere near them.

Looking back over the giant room they were in, she noticed again that there were walkways to each side. Maybe they should look around first for something to pull him out with. A rope, or a hook or something.

Nayt began walking up the ramp and she reluctantly followed. As they approached the top, the spider’s head spun around unnaturally to regard them. Book floated up along with them, though Fiona tried to keep far away from the ghostly image.

Nayt asked the robot, “Can we trust you?”

Fiona flinched as the metal spider answered in a thin demonic voice. The words appeared written in the air in front of them as it spoke, hovering there like the ghostly book. “Programming. Laws. Law 1) A robot must protect humanity. Law 2) A robot may not directly injure a human. Law 3) A robot may not lie.”

Nayt and Fiona looked at each other and he shrugged. She had no idea what that meant. Book translated, “You can trust robots to not lie or hurt you directly. But, there are exceptions, so always be careful around them.”

Nayt nodded, then asked the spider, “Our friend fell into the storage water. Can you get him out?”

The spider replied, “Malfunction.”

Nayt rephrased it as a command, “Go below and rescue the man out of the storage water.”

The spider replied, “No. Malfunction.”

“Can we bring him out of storage?”

The spider said. “No. Dangerous.”

Fiona said. “Can’t we use a rope to just pull him out?”

The spider repeated, more insistently. “No. No. Dangerous. Malfunction.”

Fiona pointed at the stump of his missing limb and asked, “Do you need your arm fixed so you can function?”

The spider’s eyes turned to look at her. “Yes. Repair.”

Nayt nodded. “OK. If we bring back your arm, you’ll be able to function?”

The spider replied, with the list also appearing as text in the air. “No. Malfunction. Sabotage. Parts Required. Part 1) Motor Type B-32. Part 2) Repair Kit Type 3. Part 3) Missing arm unit.”

Nayt prodded it along, unintentionally making the hand sign to continue.

“We have your arm unit, and can bring it to you. Where are those first two parts, then?”

The robot replied and swiveled its head, “Nearest known locations.”

A map appeared in the air between them and the robot. It showed the surrounding area of the cave with their position marked. Then it zoomed up north a few miles and a label appeared with the number 1 circled. Next the image zoomed back down and Nayt recognized the Harper River and where their town was. It zoomed in and a point appeared in the exact middle of the town of Weaver’s Launch with the number 2.

Right on the Sept where all of the Sabaa lived.