Fiona stepped close behind Nayt, shielding herself from the glowing lines of text in the air. The closest she had ever seen to such magic was when Saba Takkai would make demons appear in the air, or when Nayt made his book visible. She still couldn’t believe it was happening. Nayt was a demon worshipper. She hated the Sabaa, but worshipping demons seemed a bit much.

He had always seemed so normal. So… safe. Maybe that explains his fascination with Jayna. That girl must be half demon herself, Fiona thought.

“What is that?”

Nayt pointed, and highlighted locations. “It’s a map. Taken from above. See, that’s where we are. Here’s the stream we followed. Here’s town, and there’s your house next to all of the farmlands. This first dot is way up north, probably close to Cat’s Cradle.”

She prompted him, “Yeah, and is that second one in the Inn?”

“No.” Nayt was silent for a moment. “It’s in the Sept.”

“What! It wants us to steal from the Sept? No way. The Servitors would kill us.”

“How else will we get Peder out?”

“You’re the great wizard. Can’t you use magic?”

Nayt was getting irritated. He hated leaving Peder in there. It could be harmful, or Farmer Bauer might come back and see him. He shrugged, guessing there wasn’t much to be done other than to get those parts.

“I don’t know any magic. I don’t think there is such a thing as magic. I can just look up information and cause images to appear. Not very powerful.”

Fiona could think of a lot of ways that power could be useful. Like sneaking up on Farmer Bauer, scaring him to death, or getting Sitta Naani to walk off a cliff accidentally.

Nayt asked, “What do you say, shall we go get these things? I bet we can make it up to Cat’s Cradle tonight and be back by morning. On the way we can figure out how to get into the Sept.”

He turned, thinking.

“Book, can you copy the exact locations of these things from the robot?”

“Yes.”

“Do so. Robot, please protect our friend from harm. We’ll be back soon.”

Fiona was still in shock while Nayt was taking it so well. She wanted to scream inside, wanted to yell and kick and kill something. But he was so calm.

They walked out of the cave, and Fiona was surprised to see that it was still daylight. It must be barely past noon. She felt like she’d been underground for hours. Everything in the world had just flipped over, and no time had passed.

She turned to Nayt, and gasped again.

The drawing of the book had changed. It was now larger and much more animated, with legs and arms and a smiling face. It wore a black hat, and carried a whip on its waist.

It saw her looking at it. “Hello Fiona! I’m Book.”

Tentatively, she reached out her hand. He tried shaking hers, but their hands passed through each other. He played it up, falling and somersaulting to land in the water of the stream, coughing. It looked so realistic. She almost smiled, then caught herself in time.

Nayt sighed. “Book, come on. Stop kidding around. Do you remember everything that happened in there?”

Book jumped up, squeezing imaginary water drops from its pages. “Yes, I remember everything. Sorry I was so quiet in there. Most of me exists outside in the world, and so I couldn’t fully function inside there where connections are blocked. Next time, I’ll take more of me in with you.”

Nayt looked at Fiona. He seemed confused, but then smiled to let her know everything would be fine.

Fiona asked “Book, did you see where we need to go for these parts?”

“Yes, a room in an Old building near Cat’s Cradle. In the Sept in Weaver’s Reach, there in a room on the first floor.”

She sighed. She wasn’t sure she could trust these demons. Nayt had said they weren’t demons, but they sure looked like them. The demons also were trying to get them to go places and do thing… how were they to know how safe things were. And, she needed to get home to help feed her parents sometime soon.

They were burning daylight, as her father used to say. They should get started. A sudden thought occurred to her.

“Didn’t Peder have a guard shift tonight? Won’t they wonder if he doesn’t show up?”

Nayt sighed. “Oh yeah, I guess we need to go back and tell the guards that he won’t be in. Shall we say he’s sick? Or injured?”

On the walk down, they discussed their options. It was good to speak like this with Nayt, to be so open. She admitted to herself that she was having fun coming up with schemes to trick or steal from the Sabaa. Nayt was an excellent co-conspirator, never cutting her off or making her feel that her plan was dumb.

They guessed that Peder’s boss Gretchen would check in on Peder if they said he was sick. They needed another plan.

Nayt used Book to look up information on Cat’s Cradle, and saw that a Saba from there had posted a list of town ‘issues’. Each town had a similar list, which made for fascinating reading. Apparently, Cat’s Cradle had a problem with slavers stealing people, and it had gotten quite tense lately. They should use that to their advantage as a reason that Peder wasn’t available.

They would make sure Peder was excused from his guards work for the next two days, then Nayt would go back towards the Old Tower while Fiona went home to tend to her parents. If there were no Sabaa within range, he would take out the arm and run back to the cave as fast as possible to minimize the chance of being caught.

Next, Nayt would hide the arm in the cave, and meet up there with Fiona. They would then go up to Cat’s Cradle, and sneak into the building using his illusions if possible to get the motor.

Lastly, they would come back to town in the morning, and find some way to sneak into the Sept, and find the room and repair kit. They weren’t quite sure how to do that last piece, but her and Nayt agreed that they would come up with something and discuss it once he got back with the motor.

She was smiling, almost giggling at the prospects of going around the Sabaa and their stupid rules. Finally, she’d have some revenge.

The two hurried back to town, discussing plans. They crossing down the stream bed and continued for half a mile, walking past the Old Tower. As soon as they were near town, Nayt held up his hand.

“Wait, I need to fix my map so that it shows us not going into that cave. I can’t edit yours, so try not to let the Sabaa get to close to you.”

She nodded, not quite sure how she would do that. If all went according to plan, she wouldn’t see any of the Sabaa until it was all over.

Nayt pointed at the ground, causing a glowing line to form there.

“This is the line that marks the town limits. As soon as we cross over it, the Sabaa will know if we say certain words, and they’ll be able to listen to us. And, they know if you bring in metal or anything weird. Or if you break any rules, but only if you’re inside town. So, no more talking about this. Got it?”

She nodded. Obviously, she understood the importance. “I do. Let’s do this.”

They stepped over the line, close to the Old building. Fiona still didn’t like that place, though she knew Nayt had been sneaking there every day to study the arm. She wondered what he thought now that he had seen the creature it had fallen off of. He was quiet, and he looked like he was thinking quite hard about things. She wanted to talk to him more about the plan but kept her silence.

A few minutes later they walked into the front of the stone barracks, and asked the nearest guard for Gretchen. It was mid day and it took them a while to track her down from where she was eating lunch. She was Peder’s supervisor, and she’d be the one that controlled his schedule.

Gretchen walked up, wearing her guardsman’s frock and wiping chicken grease from her hands. “Hoi kids. What’s this about Peder?”

Nayt spoke, and she added details as appropriate. “We were up in the woods practicing our archery, and we saw a woman guard. I almost shot her when she came out of the bushes. She said she was from Cat’s Cradle, and they had a problem with a slaver that she was chasing. She was looking for him when they found us. Peder said he would go help her, and asked us to come back and tell you. We were going to head back up and wait for him. He said he might take up to two days if he helped take the slaver back to their town. So, we came immediately here.”

Gretchen looked at them, thought for a moment, and nodded.

“If you were practicing archery, why is your quiver full of arrows?”

Fiona spoke up, surprised at how perceptive Gretchen was. The guards-woman was smarter than she looked. “I don’t waste arrows. We picked them all up when we came back.”

Gretchen just watched them, brow furrowed.

Nayt said nervously, “So, um, we’re going to go. Um, thanks. Bye?”

Nayt turned to leave and Gretchen reached out and put a large calloused hand over his shoulder, turning him slowly back around to face her.

She took two steps to a rack behind them and grabbed a brown pack, slinging it over her back.

“OK then. Let’s go.”