Their plan completely disintegrated within the first five minutes of their adventure.

Gretchen took the lead. “Come with me. We must tell the Sabaa about this, then we shall go.”

Nayt and Fiona exchanged a glance. Nayt grimaced, feeling stupid. Obviously, Gretchen would be worried about the slavers, and wouldn’t just let them go without telling the Sabaa. Fiona was glaring at him, looking like she was about to speak. He had to get them out of this.

Nayt spoke up, “Gretchen, I think we’re fine to go meet him. We can come let you know if he isn’t back by tomorrow morning. Wouldn’t that work better?”

She shook her head. “No.”

And that was that. She walked into town, straight towards the Sept. She glanced back and saw that Fiona and Nayt were lingering behind. She glared until they fell into step behind her. Fiona had her jaw clenched tightly, which Gretchen ignored.

During the walk, Nayt furiously discussed plans with Book. Book could show only show himself to Nayt or selectively to people who were awakened, or to everyone. There was no way for Book to just appear to Fiona and not to Gretchen, or to speak with just her. He couldn’t speak out loud to one sleeper and not another. Nayt wanted to kick himself. He should have thought of that.

OK, new plan. Nayt asked Book to show him everything about the Sept, and the room with the repair kit in it. As the Sept was officially a public place, they could look inside, at least on the first floor. Except that everything was greyed out with a privacy filter any time one of the Sabaa were inside. Ugh.

Nayt rewinded and kept looking back, but it wasn’t until two months ago during Dom’s retirement that all of the Sabaa were out of the Sept at the same time. He paused the view and looked around the inside of the Sept. The second floor was blocked to his vision, and had a grey haze around it that Book called a privacy barrier The Retirement room and the two Testing rooms were the only ones blocked from view on the ground floor. 

He needed to think. He moved his pinky finger in a “z” symbol, then moved it down to zoom into the Sept.

Book showed him a floor map of the Sept, and he focused on a stairwell in the back with a room under it. It was next to an indoor water closet that was labelled “privy”. There was some sort of device on the target door that Book said kept it locked. 

Nayt felt annoyed again with himself. He should have been watching the Sept, should have been studying it. Hadn’t he just been reading that you have to know the minds of your opponents? He had never thought much about the Sabaa before and what they did in the Sept, but now it was very important. Maybe if had paid more attention to the Sept earlier, he would have been able to watch someone entering the door and how to do so.

Could get in that door now rather that sneaking in the next morning? It would sure make everything a lot easier. But he had no idea how to break that lock. Book showed him a picture of the Repair Kit that the spider had asked for, and he was surprised at how small it was; less than the size of a fist.

Nayt pulled up the hidden Group of rebels that Salaazar had invited him into. He searched through the archives, but found no mention of door locks on Septs. He recorded a quick message and posted it asking if anyone knew how to get into the doors under Sept stairs.

They were now walking closer to the town square. Nayt kept asking Gretchen if they could stop and eat, or if he could go check in at the Weavery, but she deflected him each time with a simple “No.” Agh, he hated working under such pressure.

As they walked closer to the town square, Nayt kept checking for a response from the group. Some of the members posted things often, and some only participated every few days, if that. He prayed to the Three and the Four for an answer. Maybe the Maker would help him. He chuckled out loud when he realized he was praying to a god for help to break into that god’s own church. Fiona glared at him and he sheepishly grinned back at her.

He was in luck. A response appeared, right as they were passing the stone god statues outside of the Sept. It was short and to the point. Try 734. Those are the Sabaa holy numbers. The sender’s name was anonymous. It was worth a try.

Gretchen walked up to the Sept, and respectfully knocked on the door. As he and Fiona shuffled up, Nayt felt his display turn off and Book disappeared from his view. A Sabaa must be within five paces of him, so Salazaar’s spell had turned off all of his powers and reverted him to be just like a sleeper.

Nayt knew it was for the best, but really wished he had help from his powers while he was in the belly of the beast. He really disliked this place. He glanced nervously from the statues of the Gods outside to the Door of Retirement where the Servitors waited. He was suddenly struck with the thought that the Servitors might be robots, something like the metal spider.

Sitta Aimee opened the door. Nayt was stuck again by her beauty, and had to push back other thoughts of how she had looked that day. She put her hand to her mouth when she saw it was him, then reached out passed Gretchen and gave him a big hug. Nayt was surprised, and saw Fiona glare at him.

She welcomed them all in warmly. She was slim, bright eyed, and always smiling. Nayt noticed that she looked different now. Even though she was in her early twenties, she looked tired. Her hair wasn’t as perfectly combed as he remembered and she looked like she hadn’t slept well. Could that day in the forest sill be bothering her? Of course it could, she had almost been killed. For the first time in his life he realized that the Sabaa were people too and had their own feelings. And he was here to steal from them. He flushed again but this time in shame.

Sitta Aimee spoke. “Hot Nayt, Fiona, Gretchen. Hello and blessings. How may I help you? Fiona, are you OK? You look a bit flushed.”

Nayt saw that Fiona looked panicky and obviously didn’t want to be here. He must be feeling that way too. This would hopefully be over quickly, one way or another. He struggled to calm his nerves.

Gretchen spoke up. “Hello, Sitta. Thank you. Nayt’s fine, he’s just worried for a friend of his that got into some trouble. We have a quick message for Saba Takkai if he is in.”

“No problem, please come in and relax.” She held Nayt’s hand and walked them into the Sept. Nayt immediately broke out in a sweat. He was breathing hard.

She escorted them into the Sept hallway and through into the kitchen. Saba Eetho was there, preparing a meal. The room was full of food of all types, with every counter completely covered in baked chicken, rolls, corn, and pies.

“Hoi everyone. Nayt, if it isn’t our hero. Aimee, really. Let the poor lad go before he blushes himself to death. And Gretchen, you look lovely as always. Fiona, welcome. I see you’re here to see the head Sabaa. You haven’t eaten in a while, eat, eat, please!”

He was so happy and cheerful. Nayt took the plateful of turkey that was offered him, but was so nervous that he could do little more than pick at it. Fiona began wolfing hers down within seconds.

Sitta Aimee left to find the High Saba. Nayt’s hands were trembling and he forced himself to stop rubbing them over and over. It felt so hot in here. Nayt looked around and recognized many of the same white boxes in their kitchen that his brother had used. The Sabaa had a lot of high tech items hiding here in plain sight.

Fiona and Gretchen made small talk with the young Saba Eetho, and Nayt decided he better act now. In a trembling voice, he asked if he could use the bathroom. Fiona frowned at him. He said it again, this time forcing confidence into his voice. Eetho barely notices, and pointed him to a door down the hall, turning back to the kitchen to speak with the girls. 

Nayt slowly stepped through the hall, both amazed at the architecture within the Sept and quavering in fear of being caught. He had seen what Takkai and the others did to rule breakers. He glanced around at the high ceilings and perfect stonework. The door he was looking for was underneath the stairs, right next to the bathroom. He hurried to it, hands trembling.

Breaking in was surprisingly simple. Nayt walked by the bathroom to the door beneath the stairs, and saw the pad on the door under the stairwell. Sure enough, the first number worked. 734. The door popped open, and Nayt stepped in with disbelief. It had worked.

It was an old room, made of reinforced wood bars and stone. It was stuffed with small boxes and junk. Most of it was beyond Nayt’s understanding, and looked like it had been there for centuries. Spider webs hung over everything and it was hard to see beyond the first row of crates and boxes. Tools and wooden stakes were poking out of corners. Some things were made of metal, and probably worth a fortune. Nayt quickly glanced around, wishing he had time to examine everything.

On the shelf to the left, there were 5 small metal boxes. Nayt was stunned to see a fortune of metal just sitting here, used as shelving. Within the topmost one he saw black boxes of different sizes that looked like the Repair Kit that Book had shown him pictures of.

Cringing, he heard footsteps on the stair above him slowly stepping down. Thump. He reached into the shelf and grabbed two of the kits. Thump. One looked to be the right size, and the other was a little larger. Thump. He pocketed both, closed the door, and stepped to the bathroom next door. Thump. His heart was beating as loud as the footfalls on the stairwell.

Nayt swung open the bathroom door to make it look like he was stepping out of it, and took a tentative shaking step out into the hallway. Saba Takkai took two more steps down the staircase, followed by Sitta Naani. 

Saba Takkai was frowning and had opened his mouth to speak, then say it was Nayt. His face instantly broke into a smile. “Nayt, my boy! So good to see that you are feeling better. Come, I hear you’re out working to keep the town safe once again.”

Sitta Naani just stared at him in disgust. Seeing them standing on the stairs, he wondered briefly at how the wood could bear their combined weight. He glanced down and saw that the stairs had nails along the side of them. Real, metal nails used as construction materials. It was awe inspiring to once again be reminded at how rich the Sabaa were.

Saba Takkai patted him on the shoulder, and guided him back into the kitchen. He felt like a mouse being followed by two giant bears. He tried not to nervously pat his bulging pockets.