Gretchen loved the Sept. She loved the statues of the Three and the Four, and always stopped by each day to pray for them. Her favorite god was the Father, who was known as the protector of the warriors. She visited whenever possible. Any chance to get closer to Saba Eetho. He was gorgeous. The best looking man that she had ever seen. And smart! 

She remembered how he had danced with her five years ago at the Winter Weinachts Festival. She had been just a gawky young teenager who hadn’t yet been Tested and he had just been confirmed as a Saba apprentice. They had danced for what seemed like hours. A year later, when Gretchen’s parents had both turned 60, he had held her hand when they were taken to their retirement ceremony. She had cried at their deaths, but he assured her that their next lives would be wonderful and full of adventures and excitement.

He was only two years older than her, and she had worshipped him since they were children. She felt almost sad when the gruff Saba Takkai stepped into the kitchen, pulling a nervous young Nayt with him. Nayt seemed spooked and rubbed his hands together continuously.

Gretchen explained what had happened with Peder and the guard from up north and asked permission to go to Cat’s Cradle to find the young guard. That boy had been a burr in her side ever since he had passed his Testing, always trying to out-perform everyone and reinvent centuries-old training. Every year, there was someone similar; someone that knew the guard’s job better than the guards did. She had been such a someone years ago, too.

The High Saba sent them on their way, and Saba Eetho courteously gave them a basket of food to take with. It had seemed like magic at how quickly he produced a steaming basket of meat and breads. 

Gretchen also took a few crowns out of her savings account, feeling proud that Saba Eetho knew she had saved up over 30 crowns over the years. Eetho was always so polite, and complemented her on her savings. He also said he would let Nayt’s mother know they were going on a trip with her. 

Fiona begged off, demanding that she needed to go home to care for her ailing parents, so it would be just Gretchen and the boy. The Sabaa thought it would be good for the young weaver to see a little of the world, to have a little adventure. Sabaa Takkai mentioned that Nayt had never been out of the village more than a few miles other than when he was kidnapped last month, and that had been at night. Or when he had fought off the northerners. He needed someone to show him the sights but keep him out of trouble. 

The high priest had said that last bit with a wink. Nayt just averted his gaze, looking embarrassed. The boy was so quiet.

She looked forward to when Eetho would take over as High Saba. It was a pity though that Sabaa didn’t marry outside the church.

They stopped by the barracks and the jail so that she could brief Captain Willis and update him on the plan. It was almost 4 bells by the time she and Nayt passed the Old tower. She shivered when they passed by. She never liked that place and was glad it was deserted.

As soon as they passed out of town Nayt wouldn’t stop talking. He was practically dancing as they walked, excited at everything they saw and asking her everything she knew about Cat’s Cradle and then sword fighting, or what she thought of Peder or the Sabaa. The boy was a bit hot-and-cold, she thought. Before her parents were retired, they had said Nayt’s mother was the same way when she wasn’t in her bottles. She remembered his mother as being a tall blond woman that had been in the towns-guard many years ago as well. Hadn’t his father been the guards-captain long ago? She had forgotten about that.

Nayt was entering a difficult period of his life. She didn’t remember the age of 15 very fondly. Being the biggest kid in class to include the boys didn’t make for an easy childhood. Nayt was also a bit plump, but nowhere near as tall and thick as she had been. She might have felt more sympathy if he stopped complaining about how much his new leather shoes itched from the sweat.

Gretchen had been to Cat’s Cradle once before. It was about 9 miles up as a straight walk, west by northwest. She briefly thought about taking horses, but the forest in that direction was quite thick and the animals would likely turn a hoof. Easier to just walk in the hot July evening, and it would do Nayt some good to get the exercise. She hiked a little more than 3 miles per hour, so figured it should take a few hours at most.

“Gretchen, shouldn’t we just wait for Peder to come back?”

“Don’t worry. I’ll keep you safe. Don’t worry, those Northerners won’t be able to get a jump on us if they’re out here.”

Nayt sighed. He was doing a lot of sighing lately. “Still, I could just go find him. I’m sure it will be fine and he’ll be back soon.”

“Enough. We walk. There’s a stream over to the West a bit. I normally just go straight through the woods, but let’s follow that up a bit, in case we need water. You’ll like it - I think we’ll pass close to where Fiona fought her bugbears.”

Nayt’s eyes got wide. Even though the main sun Fire had set, the two remaining smaller suns Torch and Candle lit the sky just enough for her to see his expression.

“And, don’t worry about bugbears either. We’ll be safe following the stream.”

Nayt sighed. He sure was sighing a lot. Such a melancholy kid.

As they walked, Nayt flitted from tree to tree, asking about almost every type of wood and flower they say. He had a weird way of asking, very formal. He’s say things like, “Please tell me what are the differences between Faegrove Trees and Erdgrove Trees.” Or “Please tell me why Faetrees have so many branches on top or why Erdgroves never grow close to Faetrees.” Things like that. It was exhausting. She felt bad for Saba Eetho having to teach classes full of kids that asked so many questions. Even worse, he seemed to hardly listen to her when she answered.

He was starting to annoy her at the risks he would take, almost sticking his had into a Bofa nest to get some valuable sap to use as glue, or wanting to pick up a Shrike egg to take home to study. They were walking parallel to the river when she say the Shrike nest, and she roughly grabbed him and pulled him to the side before he could do something deadly like disturb the nest. Shrikes would scream so loud that they could deafen you, and there was always a mother shrike nearby to protect her young.

She pulled him to the West a few hundred meters, back to the stream. A moon had come out, and she could see a nice flat area along the stream bed up ahead.

She told him, “Let’s stop up there and have dinner.”

Nayt looked up ahead, then suddenly looked scared. Was he still worried about the Shrike?

“Can we just keep going? I’m not hungry yet. We should keep walking!” His manic energy was back, and he charged off into the forest before she could stop him, looping them around the stream. The frustrating boy had just been whining about how staving he was just ten minutes before.

They kept hiking and Nayt’s mood had turned from excited to cranky. His legs hurt, and he kept asking if a burning sensation in the front of his thighs was normal. She assured him it was just his unused leg muscles finally getting exercise. They were mostly going uphill, over rocky terrain, and Nayt had brought a pretty large pack. He was dripping with sweat, and huffing and puffing with every step. He had stopped asking questions aloud, and was just mumbling to himself. Gretchen shook her head. City kids. It would be good for him.

An hour later, both moons were out. It was a pretty evening, bright and calm. The town should be pretty close, though she was having trouble finding it in the dark. Nayt must have been a better woodsman than she had thought as he directed them to a cobbled path that ran right into the Cent.

They walked into town. Even though it was night they noticed that everyone they passed was staring at them. Sh was here before years ago. It was a tiny town compared to Weaver’s Launch. Everyone was wary, and Gretchen gathered they must be on edge from slaver attacks. A stone wall rimmed the small town, something that would have been impossible in their much larger Pent back home. 

Having only one hundred people in town made things much tighter and closer together, with the Sept as the only two-story building that she could make out in the dim light. This Sept only had very small stone statues of the Three and the Four, and she felt pity for the townsfolk. They didn’t even have a room for Retirement and instead sent their Retirees down to Weaver’s Launch about once per month.

She checked them into the Inn and got them two rooms. Nayt might have heroically saved that skinny tart Sitta Aimee, but that didn’t mean that Gretchen wanted to spend any more time with the moody teenage boy than she had to. They were the only two at the Inn and the Innkeeper was falling over himself to server them. Without a river, the town didn’t seem to get many visitors.

“We’re here to see the town guard. Where are the barracks?”

The innkeeper wrung his hands, nervously. “My lady, the barracks were burned by slavers last month. Most of the guard is working out of the Jail on the other side of town or at the mine entrance up north.”

Gretchen sighed, it seemed like this wasn’t going to be easy. Every few weeks, someone from Cat’s Cradle had come down to their town and had brought news of how bad the slavers had gotten. This seemed worse than they had heard, though.

“What about your Saba? Might he be awake at this time of the evening? Worshipping the Three, perhaps?”

The innkeeper looked positively shocked. “Oh, no. Saba Liugan only sees visitors during the day. He teaches classes in the morning, but is available at noon. He would be very upset to be disturbed. He is quite old, and will be appointing a new High Saba later this year when he Retires.”

Gretchen decided she did not like this innkeeper much. He spoke a little too freely about the church’s business. Of course, small villages like this wouldn’t be as advanced as her Weaver’s Launch was. She reminded herself to keep perspective.

“Well, we might as well make a night of it, and go to see the guardsmen first thing in the morning. Likely Peder is with them.”

Nayt followed her upstairs, and entered his room. He seemed distracted, but was looking around at all the new sights studying everything. She hoped that tomorrow he would be able to see more of the town than just some dirty old inn.

Her room was next to his, and she quickly prepared for sleep. With slavers about, she slept in her shift with her sword and shield nearby, just in case. She heard Nayt up and making noises next door, and pounded the wall, shouting for him to get some sleep. She smiled, shaking her head. Just like a new guard apprentice, excited for adventure. 

He soon quieted and she soon heard snoring through the wall.

A few minutes later the Innkeeper knocked on their door.

“What?” she asked quietly, hoping the man wouldn’t wake the sleeping Nayt.

“I just wanted to inform you, that it’s about to be curfew time. If you’re going out, the password tonight is ‘Authority’. The guards arrest anyone who doesn’t know it.”

“Thanks.” What a crazy town. She couldn’t imagine everyone back home agreeing to such a thing. The town must be much more worried about the slaver attacks than she had thought.