Nothing was going right today.

It had taken another hour before he steeled himself to sneak out of the Inn. He had spent the time looking around the town using his map, trying to memorize the layout and look into what public buildings that he could. Most were dark, so he didn’t see anything interesting.

He found a spell online from the Group for how to make a sound appear and stay in one location. He recorded a snoring sound and played it on a loop, then took everything out of his pack and wrapped the cloak around it. Anyone looking in the door would think he was inside, snoring. He left everything in the room except for the coin he had gotten from Dom. He was afraid if he left it then Gretchen or that greasy innkeeper might find it, so he pocketed it instead.

Even though the town looked empty, Nayt could tell from his map that there was a heavy guard presence in town, with about ten guardsman patrolling streets and the entrance to the mine up north. From what he could see, the mine was quite small and only seemed to produce coal. The Weavery back home would occasionally buy coal from here, but as it was so hard to transport they preferred burning wood whenever possible.

About half of the guard were sleeping or patrolling out of a large building in front of the mine. Unfortunately, the Old building that was marked on the map was right next-door, directly between the mine and the Sept. He didn’t think he would be able to get anywhere close to there without being seen.

Nayt was worried that Gretchen would be upset when she found out that no one in Cat’s Cradle had heard of Peder. He had come up with a pretty risky plan to fix that, but wished Fiona was here with him to help. They had decided it would be too tricky to convince Gretchen to bring her, and she needed to go home to her parents.

Nayt briefly wondered about Fiona’s parents. She never let anyone come to her house, and never talked about them. He had heard that her father lost his leg a year ago, but she never spoke of the details.

Nayt held his breath as he creeped down the hallway. The inn only had three guest rooms, and he passed the innkeeper’s sleeping room on his way out. The floorboard creaked as he stepped by, and he froze in place. No one came to investigate, so with trembling fingers, Nayt opened up the front door and stepped out into the night.

It had taken a few posts on the Group message boards, but he finally found someone that helped him write a quick spell for what he wanted to do. It was intricate, and took a few tries in his room earlier to get it right. The hardest part was getting Book to show himself a view of himself and rotating it around until the details were perfect.

He now looked exactly like Peder. The spell copied his friend’s face, his height, and his clothes. He didn’t quite have the walk or voice replicated, but it was a very good imitation. It might not fool Gretchen up close, but definitely would fool anyone from a distance.

As Peder was a foot taller than him, Nayt’s real eyesight came from a point somewhere in Peder’s throat. He passed a few people on the street, and felt that they were all staring at a point above his head. It was disconcerting, both because of that height issue, but also because everyone naturally flinched back from the tall muscular stranger. Most people just didn’t treat Nayt like much of a physical threat.

Nayt was walking through town in the direction of the Old building, using his map to make sure he was seen by a few guardsmen. He thought it was a good way to make sure someone would describe him as Peder if Gretchen asked in the morning.

A tough hand grabbed his arm, and spun him around. They were close to the Jail, and Nayt’s map showed that one of the guardsmen from inside had come out to grab him. He felt a brief buzzing sensation, but wasn’t quick enough to react.

“What’s the password?”

Nayt just said, “Um. What?”

“Here, now. Who do you think you are snooping around here? Come to rescue your friend, now, did ya?”

Nayt had a speech ready, but only had time to get out a few words.

“My name is Peder, I’m from Weaver’s Launch…”

A quick buzzing filled his chest. He tried pulling back, but a fist punched him violently in the stomach.

“You shut your mouth. You bloody rebels always talking. Get in here.”

The burly guard pulled Nayt by his arm and dragged him into the jail. Nayt tried not to throw up from the pain in his stomach. He held his aching belly.

The jail had a front room where another guard sat, watching them. There were also two cells in the back, with bars made of strong noughat posts, tightly woven together. The outer wall was stone, and each cell had a straw mat on the floor, and a hole in the ground to use as a privy.

“But, I’m not a rebel. I’m from down south…”

This earned him another punch in the ribs. He reflected bleakly that he was lucky the guard didn’t try to punch him in the face, as the hand would have passed through thin air and likely resulted in him getting stabbed as a demon worshipper. Small favors.

There was a man in the second cell. Nayt was quickly searched, but didn’t have anything on him other than his empty backpack. He had the coin hidden in his boot, but the guards weren’t thorough enough to look there. He thought the pack would be useful for carrying the motor out, and wisely hadn’t brought the knife.

The guard threw him into the cell, and kicked him in the ribs. The door was locked by wedging a strong bar of wood between the stone wall and the bars. Between tears in his eyes from the kick, Nayt could see no way to remove it.

Nayt sat down heavily. He was breathing heavily and realizing that he needed to calm down and stop panicking. Gretchen would find him in the morning, then they would likely send for his mother or Saba Takkai to come get him. If they didn’t hang him in the morning for being a slaver or demon worshipper. The fear was overwhelming, and he could feel himself starting to shake from fatigue and adrenaline running out.

The guard said, “The Saba will see you tomorrow around noon. If you two keep quiet until then, he might take mercy. Disturb us, and I sure won’t.”

With that, he turned back to sit across from the other guard, and resumed a hand of cards.

A tear fell down Nayt’s cheek. He brushed it away, and took a deep shuddering breath. This couldn’t be any worse. Sooner or later, they would see through the fake face he was wearing. As soon as a Saba came near, the illusion would fade and he would have a lot of explaining to do. Maybe Gretchen would find him in time and get him out before a Sabaa saw?

The man in the cell next to him straightened. He was a tall slender man with a slight beard and pointy ears and wore bright clothes of died cloth. It was much more color than Nayt had seen on anyone for years. It reminded him of the Tinkers that had come through town years ago when they were heading to the last Spring Festival that was in Shore up the river. Nayt was only 8 at the time, but it had made an impression. He had loved their music and stories. The Tinkers were called Elves when people were angry. He was never sure why, but no one seemed to like them very much.

The man whispered through the bars, careful not to upset the guards.

“Joff over there seems to have taken a liking to you.”

Nayt shrugged, then coughed at the pain in his ribs. He was afraid one had been broken by the guard Joff. That man was an animal.

It was weird, but when looking at the man on his map, all that he saw was a dot. There was no name next to the dot, like appeared with everyone else Nayt came near. Magic?

“I don’t know how you’re doing it, but if you wear the face of a tall scary man, people will react accordingly.”

It took a minute for that to sink in.

Nayt looked back at the stranger, shocked. “What?”

The man was older, maybe nearer to thirty. Much older than Nayt. “When I look at you, I see a big manboy that looks like a ghost sitting over the face of a young smaller boy.”

Nayt grimaced, “I’m not a boy.”

“My apologies. A young man, then. A young wizard.”

Nayt shook his head, sitting up with his back against the wall.

“My name is Nayt. Are you awakened? Is that how you see?”

The stranger shook his head. “I am Tomas. We don’t do your Tests in the Trier. We know of them, though I don’t think we have anything to awaken to.”

Nayt didn’t understand. Under his breath, he asked Book about Trier. Book described Trier as a traveling group of refugees that were not Citizens that lived in the Iron Lands to the North. Nayt wasn’t sure what a Citizen was, or how it mattered. He would look it up later.

“Then how can you see through this?”

The man shrugged. He then looked up to see the approaching guard.

Nayt turned to look as well. The guard Joff had a large wooden staff, and poked it in through the bards to jab at them.

“I said keep quiet! You slavers can make your schemes when the Saba has you. One more word, and you’ll get a stick in the jaw.”

They sat in silence for a while. Nayt had an idea.

Just like sending messages to Peder, Nayt tried to send one to the man. It was hard, not knowing anything else about him. Book reported that he couldn’t find the man in any way to send a contact request. He tried a voice message, a video message, posts, and anything else he had ever seen or heard of. Nothing seemed to work.

Finally, after some searching in the Group and discussing it with Book, Nayt tried to make a spell that would give someone the power to receive messages. He didn’t really understand the details, and Book used many strange words like protocols and interfaces, but he saw a reference to something while searching that looked like it might work. He would have to hand that spell over, like Salazaar had given him the two spells last month.

He reached his hand through the bar and touched Tomas’s shoulder. The older man jumped, moving quickly out of range. Nayt held out a glowing square for him and whispered. “Take it.”

Tomas looked from him to the glowing square, considering. After a minute, he reached forward and did so.

It seemed to have been enough, as Book showed an icon for contacting Tomas within Nayt’s view.

Tomas?

Tomas looked around, panic showing in his eyes. He then looked at Nayt and cocked a grin.

Tomas, it’s me. Nayt. I’m just talking to you. It’s not demons, nothing to be afraid of. You can talk back; just try to talk without moving your mouth. Say the words in your throat.

It was comical at first, and Tomas got a few glares from the guard for mumbling before he was able to answer clearly.

I hear you.

Nayt replied. OK. Good. I guess you don’t use distance talking in Trier?

Tomas shook his head. No. We have our wise ones, and they can do something similar, but I’ve never seen it before.

Strange. From what Salazaar had said every human should be able to have these powers. If they were awakened all of their lives, shouldn’t one of the Tinkers have figured out how to by now? Could it have something to do with their names not showing next to their dots on the map?

Oh. OK. I’m sorry, Tomas, I’m still new at this. I was just awakened last month and am figuring things out.

We in Trier have had a few wizards come by, asking for help to fight your Sabaa. We don’t get involved.

Interesting. Are you slavers?

Tomas shook his head again. He was picking up the talking method very fast. Faster than Nayt had.

No, my people are not the slavers. We are merchants. Your people call us Tinkers. We travel throughout all these lands, trading. Most of your people do not bother us, but the guards in this town are jumpy, and grabbed me earlier today when I came to see if anyone wanted to buy. Someone was stolen by slavers this morning, so everyone is angry and jumpy.

Nayt replied I’ve never heard of you before. I’m from Weaver’s Launch. Do you ever come down there?

We haven’t in a long time. We stay to the hills mostly. Our horses don’t like the dense trees, they might turn hooves. I’m sure all of our people will join together during the End of Days, though.

The what?

Tomas looked at him, perplexed. The End of Days. Don’t you know of that, wizard?

Nayt asked Book, who didn’t know of the reference. Frowning, he searched online, and found nothing listed. He had never before seen something that didn’t return at least one result when he searched. Weird. He told Tomas he had never heard of it.

Nayt’s clock showed that it was past midnight. Peeking up, he saw that the second guard was asleep. Joff was pacing, looking out the windows and occasionally glancing back at them. He had a hand on his sword belt at all times. Nayt shuddered.

Nayt?

Yes?

If I were to leave, would you want to come with?

What do you mean? Leave the town?

Tomas grinned. Well, yes. But first leave this Jail. The Sabaa here has been hanging any slavers he finds, and I think we will join that group if we stay around.

How would you do that? Joff doesn’t seem very keen on us sneaking out of here.

Nayt turned to look out the small window in the stone wall at the top of the cell. It was only a few inches wide. Just enough to air out the cells.

Nayt said I don’t think we can get out through there. And there are four guards patrolling outside.

Tomas paused, then looked at him. Your magic tells you where the guards are?

Nayt thought about showing Tomas the map, but didn’t know how to do so without Joff the guard also seeing it.

Yes. I can see them walking. There are two near the Sept, and two up about a quarter of a mile near the mine. There is a bunch more sleeping up there, and some out to the forest to the East. And someone outside across the street, but I can’t tell who.

Tomas swore. He slowly stood up, making it look like he was stretching. Joff glared at him, but when Joff wasn’t looking, Tomas put his hand up in the window and wiggled his fingers in complex patterns.

When he was done Nayt asked, What was that?

A friend. She was going to get me out. Now she’s going to get us both out. When she does, the Sabaa will likely come, so we need to run. Where is the best place to go so that the guards will not see us?

Nayt thought, looking at the map from all angles. There is an Old building. It is to the North also, close to the mines. It’s where I’m heading. The Saba won’t be able to see inside that if we get there quick enough. But those two guards are nearby. Otherwise, maybe to the West? The forest is thick there.

Tomas responded, thinking. But they will likely be very familiar with these forests, and we are not. It will slow us down. Maybe, she can be a diversion… run to the forest, and then we hide in this Old building while the guards chase her, then we go East.

Nayt asked Won’t they catch her?

She is very fast. I am the one that would tromp through the forest. She is as light as a feather. And can sting like a bee.

Nayt shrugged. He really didn’t feel like running, especially with his bruised rib. But, he needed to get out of that jail in order to get the motor and then go save Peder. How had everything gotten so complicated in one day?

Tomas repeated his hand signs in the window. He listened and heard a bird whistle outside, then nodded.

Now.

“Now?” Nayt asked, accidentally saying it out loud.

He wasn’t ready. He pulled up his map, and saw a dot approaching the jail from across the street. Unlike every other person he saw walking, this one didn’t have a name when he zoomed on it. Interesting. Tomas’s friend?

A clatter of wood on stone made Nayt turn around. Joff was gurgling and clutching his neck. He stiffened, then fell over, crashing face-first into the floor and dropping his large hardwood pole with a clatter. The other guard had heard the noise and groggily sat up, pulling a blanket from over his face. Tomas was lying on the ground as well. What was he doing?

The guard ran forward to cell to look in on the prisoners. He stared at Nayt and cocked his head to the side. He rubbed his eyes, and squinted his eyes together. Could he be seeing through the illusion?

Tomas casually reached through the bars and punched the guard in the stomach, hard. The guard flinched, then fell to the ground clutching his belly and moaning. Nayt knew how he felt.

The jailbreak had begun.