Nayt turned to look at the wall. A loud ear-splitting siren rang out through the night. He clenched his hands over his ears. It must look comical, he thought, as it must appear to the guard that Peder was holding his hands to his neck. 

A big red dot was pulsing right next to him in his map display. It flashed just like when Fiona had nearly brought the arm into town. Book spoke over the racket, “A forbidden object is in town. An alarm is sounding.”

Nayt made the hand signal to silence Book. He had figured that much out for himself.

Nayt saw movement from all around the town as people were coming awake, looking out their windows and coming into the street.

A burning red line appeared in the stone wall behind him. The heat was intense, and Nayt stumbled away from it, nearly burned his arm.

Seconds later the red line became a circle. A hole opened in the stone wall where a chunk of it fell out into the street. It was in between both of their cells and wide enough for them both to crawl out of.

A woman was standing there, holding a glowing sword. Nayt stared at his unexpected savior. She was of medium height, with dark wavy hair and a soft face. Her clothes were unlike anything Nayt had seen before, with black leather pants and a tight green tunic over a white blouse. Her girlish smiling face looked pure and innocent, in stark contrast to the deadly glowing sword she held in her hand.

She asked, “Anyone order a rescue?”

Tomas scampered out of the hole, making sure not to touch the stone wall that was still glowing like hot coals.

“Veronyca, this is Nayt. He’s a wizard. That’s why he has two faces.”

She stared at Nayt and he stepped out as well, considerably less graceful than Tomas was. She cocked her head to the side and looked back and forth from his real face to his ghostly one. Nayt wasn’t sure if she was going to stab him or tell a joke.

Nayt said, “Um, there are a ton of guards running this way. It looks like the Saba is out, too, coming towards us. We should run.”

Veronyca flicked something on her sword, which faded into a dark ordinary polished hard wooden sword, though shinier from what you would normally get with saltsap wax. The alarm sounds coming from the Sept immediately stopped, and he noticed that his map stopped flashing from the town-wide alarm.

Nayt spoke up, “The Saba can see your sword whenever you make it glow. It’s what set off the alarm.”

She nodded, then shrugged. He looked again at her sword, and his visual overlay indicated that it was named Qore.

Tomas spoke up, indicating the South. “V, can you run to the forest in that direction? Turn on your sword every once in a while, as it seems to draw them towards you. We’ll meet you to the East an hour before dawn.”

She nodded and gave them a quick salute. “Fun!” was all she said and then took off running. Her sword glowed, and she held it over her head, shouting over the alarm.

Nayt and Tomas walked to the North, hurrying. Every guard on the map seemed to be running around confused. From one street over, they saw what must be the Saba. He was an old man, dressed in a purple robe, pointing the direction Veronyca had run to. Three guards followed, shouting to others to join in the chase.

Thomas and Nayt kept to the shadows and made it to the Old building undetected.

Nayt was expecting a much larger area. The building was small, just one circular room. It was on the outskirts of the small town, and they could see the mine building at the foot of the hill to the North across a clearing. The front door opened on well oiled wooden hinges.

Nayt and the older man waited for a few long minutes, while more guards ran from the mine building into town and off to the West to follow the alarms and shouts coming from that direction.

Nayt spoke to Tomas, narrating events as they occurred. “It looks like she led most of them off to the forest. She turned off the sword, and I can’t see her on the map once she left town. The Saba is over there with about ten guards and others. They are all searching through the forest near town. Will she be OK?”

Tomas nodded and answered. “She’ll be fine. The girl is half wood nymph. No one will be able to catch her.”

Nayt was startled, “She’s not human?”

Tomas laughed. “No, it was a figure of speech. I just mean she knows her way around trees. Now, how long shall we wait before it’s safe to get out of this place? Building like this are cursed.”

“Tomas, I think you should go now. I have friend at the Inn. I think I can go back and meet her using my real face.”

Tomas considered, then nodded. “I understand. I am thankful to the Three Wise Men that we met you.”

They shook hands, and Tomas prepared to leave.

He turned back, “Is there some way to teach me to make this communication magic? It would be very useful for my people.”

“I don’t know how that would work. But I’ll research it. If you ever come down to Weaver’s Launch, find me. I work in the Weavery there.”

Tomas bowed slightly, then turned and left.

Nayt watched to make sure he left safely, following his dot on the map as it made a stealthy trip across town. When he disappeared off into the forests in the East, Nayt released a breath that he hadn’t realized he had been holding.

He turned to look through the Old building. It looked completely empty. He brought up pictures of what the motor should look like, and couldn’t see how there would be one within this one room.

The building seemed almost completely useless. One circular room, with one doorway. There was a circular rug right in the middle of the floor, about 4 feet in diameter. What would the ancients have used such a building for? Storage? Protection?

Nayt paced up and down the room, which was about 10 strides in diameter. Nothing. He looked under the rug. Nothing, just a stone floor. Where would a motor be in a room like this?

Nayt pulled up the references for what a motor was, and what it did. A motor was something that took in power and then turned or moved. Nayt wasn’t quite sure what power was, but he had seen many references to that during his reading. This specific motor was small, about the size of Nayt’s thumb, and could turn things in many different directions.

What would be turned in a solid room? Nayt touched the walls with his hand, trying to feel what the material was. It wasn’t quite stone, but something like it. Smooth like rock, but very hard. Similar to the material that the Old Tower back home was made of. Nayt remembered how the Old Tower had a door under the stairway that you almost couldn’t see, because of how straight the opening was. He was exhausted from the long night, and took a few deep breaths to help him focus.

Could there be a hidden door in this building?

Nayt looked around with renewed interest. The room was almost totally dark, though he whispered for Book to increase his night vision. Dust covered most of the floor, with footprints showing his and Tomas’s steps. With his eyes, he followed around where he was walking and tried to remember where Tomas had stepped. He and Thomas had mostly waited by the doorway watching outside when they saw that the room was empty.

So, why were there footsteps in the dust to the rug in the center of the room? Looking carefully, Nayt could see that they were made from large sandals. Neither he nor Tomas had worn sandals, so they must have been from someone else coming in here. 

Back home, the Sabaa had discouraged anyone from entering the Old Tower. Could they be doing the same here? Could the old Saba be storing something here, like in the room in Saba Takkai’s Sept where he had stolen the Repair Kits?

Walking to the center of the room, Nayt saw the break in the floor around the rug. It was very thin, but when he ran his fingernails over the floor, he felt more than saw that there was a craved into it. Nayt sat on the rug in the middle of the circle, thinking.

He tried everything he could imagine. It was frustrating, and he was getting very tired. The long walk yesterday and all the stress from the past few hours were wearing on him. He needed to stay awake, or he would fall asleep in this building, and Gretchen would discover that he had left.

Dawn was only thirty minutes away. Nayt was about to give up and sneak back into the Inn, when he noticed a new icon in his vision. Blinking, he stood up and stepped out of the circle. The icon disappeared. Nayt stepped back in and it reappeared.

Book, what’s this new blue icon?

Book materialized and answered It is a localized control panel.

Nayt reached out in his vision and pressed the icon. A new, large screen showed up on his vision. It was asking for an access code.

Hmm. Could the same numbers from the Sept back home work here? Nayt tried entering 734 and 743, but neither worked.

He sighed in frustration. He tried every combination he could think of. Nothing worked. He swore. He tried more combinations.

Nayt shook with frustration. He hadn’t thought this part would be so hard. Everything was the opposite of what he and Fiona had planned; getting into the Sept and getting here was relatively easy. He had thought getting into this one Old building would be the easy part.

Should he leave? Keep trying? Nayt needed to get back to the Inn soon to avoid discovery.

He started punching in random numbers, starting with all 7s. That didn’t work; neither did all 3s or all 4s. Finally, when he was just about to give up, he entered only the number 7 once and hit the OK button.

Silently, the circular floor area lowered into another room. And then another, and then still more. Nayt fell to his knees, eyes wide with panic. He then closed them as he kept falling.

He dropped through to the seventh underground level.