Nayt opened his eyes and looked around. The room was about twice as big as the uppermost area, also in a circle. In was full of wooden crates in various state of rot.

Lights glowed on the walls around him, casting the room in a green glow. It was enough to see by, and Nayt asked Book to update his vision.

Just like in the cave earlier, Book seemed to be having trouble showing himself and interacting with Nayt. His vision quickly adjusted to the dark, with artificial light to help him see, but none of the maps or labels that usually shone over his vision. Book also had gone back to his two-dimensional version just like he had in the cave. 

“Book, where are we?”

“In a building.”

Nayt sighed. He was tired, and the adrenaline was leaving his system. He blinked, forcing his eyes open. He just wanted to curl up in a corner and take a nap.

“Book, how long until sunrise?”

Book’s voice rang out. “22 minutes.”

Nayt sighed again then waved his hand in the pattern to dismiss book’s image.

He raised his foot to step off the platform but caught himself before his foot lowered onto the grey floor. A thick layer of dust coated everything with no footsteps in it. No one had been here for a long time, and his tracks would be easily visible if he did step through here.

Nayt was afraid that the lift might leave without him if he stepped off. He reached over to the nearest crate and pulled it closer to him. It was about two feet in each direction, and moved easily. Looking inside, he saw that it contained a folded package wrapped in some sort of bendable see-through material. Some sort of clothing was inside it. He stuck the package into his backpack to study later.

An alarm beeped, and he jumped in fright. He had set a reminder to ping him before dawn. He had to find that motor and return to the Inn or face discovery. Nayt had no idea if the local Saba had some way of knowing that an intruder was inside here. He should probably get out soon.

Nayt stepped back onto the circular disk and entered 6 into his mental control panel. The lift moved up one more floor.

A hum filled the room, and lights turned on. The blinding brightness hurt, and he shielded his eyes with his arm. He cursed and turned down his enhanced eyesight.

As his vision adjusted, Nayt saw that there were desks all around the room, covered in trays and plates. A smell of roasted meat hit his nose, and his stomach growled. It had been 12 hours since he had eaten and the hike yesterday had really built up his appetite. The floors here were clean, with two tracks of dirt in them made from what looked to be sandals. All the guards he had seen were wearing boots. Could the Sabaa be coming here? They would be the only ones with access, and usually also wore sandals.

A flicker of light caught his attention and he saw that one of the tables nearby had a plate and some instruments next to it. They looked like a knife and fork, but gleamed unlike the wooden instruments he had back home. Eating utensils, made of metal. Such riches!

Without thinking Nayt stepped off the lift towards the fortune in metal.

Nayt realized that he might have lost his only way out, and turned to jump back on the lift in case it rose without him. The lift stayed put and he released his breath with a sigh.

Nayt had to move but he was reluctant to pass by these sparkling treasures. Stepping to the table, he saw that indeed the utensils were made of some strong metal. He picked them up, Testing them. They were light but too strong for him to bend with just his hands. 

Knowing that they would be missed he still shoved them into his pack. He could give them to Fiona in exchange for the arm. They would be worth easily twenty crowns each.

Thwack. Thwack. Sizzle. Nayt spun, hearing dangerous noises from behind him. His mouth watered at the pungent smell of roasting meat. He raised the small fork in his hand preparing to lunge at any dangerous attackers behind him.

A tall metal demon stood in the corner brandishing a wicker metal knife. Robot, the logical side of his brain said. Run, the emotional side of his brain replied.

Nayt thought of the Servitor demons from the Sept back in Weaver's Launch. They would be the same height and shape if they didn’t wear the concealing cloaks. Could the servitors at the Sept just be metal robots like this one?

“Would you like breakfast, master?”

Nayt leaned backwards, preparing to run. “Um. What?”

“You look hungry, master. You are early for breakfast. May I prepare food for you?”

“Uh… no. Thank you. It smells delicious. But, um, I need to go. Thank you, though.”

The robot nodded its skeletal metal head, lowering the knife. It continued staring at him patiently waiting while eggs cooked on the plate in front of him.

Nayt had a wild thought. It was worth a try. “Um, do you happen to know where I can find a Type B-32 Motor?”

“Yes.”

“Oh. OK. Where?”

“I have three in each of my appendages. Would you like me to remove one for you?” It hefted the knife, a little too eagerly for Nayt’s comfort.

“No, no. Wait. Are there any other of these motors in the building?”

“Yes.”

Nayt sighed.

“OK. Where in the building can I find one that isn’t already being used?”

“On floor 4 in maintenance section B. There are six of them in stock. Would you like me to requisition one for you?”

Nayt wasn’t sure what that meant, and Book wasn’t being very helpful as a translator. Could finishing the quest really be this easy?

“Yes, please.”

A srummf sound echoed from the wall next to the robot. Seconds later, a small tube popped out onto the table the robot was standing behind. With his metal arm the robot turned and opened the tube and extracted a black object that was about the size of Nayt’s thumb. The robot handed it to Nayt, who accepted it gingerly. It was surprisingly heavy.

“Um, thank you.”

“You are very welcome, Master. Have a nice day.”

Nayt turned and stepped on to the platform, and took a deep breath. He was exhausted. Nayt entered number 1 on the display to return to the top floor. The lift rose but stopped one floor below the top.

This floor was much smaller, about the size of the empty room above. Nayt realized that each floor must get larger and larger the lower they went. The room was totally dark and crowded with chairs. He had to enhance his vision again to see. Dust marks showed that many feet had walked this area, and recently.

Nayt turned to leave, punching in number 1 again. Nothing happened. The lift didn’t move. He hit it again. Nothing.

Damn it. There must be another way out. Nayt spun around, looking.

“Hello Nathan. I’m glad you came. I’ve been waiting for you.”

Nayt ducked, crouching to the ground and raising his fists to cover his face. He peeked between his hands. The voice was very deep and resonant. A giant green face appeared in the screen as well, made of green glowing lines. Its face was jagged and pointy and glowed threatening and… alien. Like from one of the movies he had seen.

Nayt’s eyes opened wide. This thing was not in his head. Not one of the visible internal sights that the power let him see. This was something different. And it knew his name. How did it know his name?

“Nayt, we only have a few minutes so I must speak quickly. The Saba is on his way to this facility now. Before you go, I need you to do something.”

The face glanced to the left and a map materialized in the air showing the surrounding village. Two dots were steadily walking from the Sept in the South up towards them. A countdown appeared next to their dots, counting down until their arrival. It read 4 minutes.

Nayt gulped, then slowly stood up. Was this thing threatening him or trying to help him?

Nayt remembered from last month when Salazaar had mentioned there was only one Green Demon. Could this be him? It was creepy, and Nayt felt that he was being looked down upon. He shuddered.

He needed to get out of here. He pushed 0 in the control panel, but the lift still didn’t move. The Demon must be blocking it somehow. This wasn’t good. Nayt thought back to the warning from Salazaar - he needed to tell his brother that he saw the thing.

The demon spoke. “I’m sorry, but you have no access to take the lift to the leave this building. Your are trapped here until they arrive. I can unlock it for you.”

Nayt was tired and cranky and just wanted to go home. He was all full of adventure. He asked, “What do you want?”

The demo smiled. “I want to trade with you.”

The demon glanced down to the right of the large screen. A small slot glowed green.

“I want to send some information to the cave that you were in earlier. Where your friend is in stasis. I know you have a disk in your shoe. If you put it in this slot and take it to that cave, I will pay you for your effort. Pay you handsomely.”

The clock continued counting down. They were getting close. 3 minutes. Nayt started to tremble. The Saba would kill him.

Nayt’s hand went to the glowing coin in his shoe, pulling it out. He could see the wires in it. Dom’s coin that he had given Nayt before he was killed. The demon called it a chip

"We have got into enough trouble with that cave. I don't think so... And how do you know so much about me?"

“Nayt, you have only minutes to decide. The Saba and his assistant are on the way. He always comes here for breakfast. Please reconsider. I can pay you with great powers”

“What 'great powers’?”

“I mean I will give you 100 colonial credits. I know you don’t know what that means. Credits are like money, like your crown coins. Except they are much more valuable and can be used to build amazing things, like the robot in the cave.”

Nayt liked the sound of that, but was wary of a trap. He was simply too tired to think really clearly, though. This demon seemed to really want his help, and Nayt had learned from selling goods at the Weavery that you should never accept the first price. Always bargain, he had been taught, especially when someone was in a hurry. Maybe he could get paid first, then tell Salazaar what he had seen.

“500 credits.”

The demon raised a glowing green eyebrow. “With 500 credits, you could buy a ticket to another planet. That is too much.”

Nayt had no idea what he was bargaining for, just that the demon wanted something and their time was limited. He said the first thing that came to mind.

“OK 100 credits, but for each of us. Me, Peder, and Fiona.”

“Done. Put the disk in the slot. And hurry, you have mere seconds.”

Nayt stepped forward and did so. The coin inserted into the slot, a green light flashed, and the coin popped out.

A glowing disk appeared in the air in front of him. It was a spell, like the ones that Salazaar had given him. It had a key lock, indicating he needed to put his golden private access key into it.

Nayt touched the spell, and book spoke up. “Nayt, this is a powerful program. It’s giving you access to control the lift and…”

The clock count down from 20 seconds. Nayt raised his hand in the halt sign he used to stop Book from talking. He was cutting this really close. His heart hammered in his ears. He pointed his finger to summon his private key, inserted it into the lock and accepted the spell.

The demon spoke quickly, sounding panicked. “Get on the lift and run to the left once outside of the building. Give the disk to the spider in the cave.”

Nayt grabbed the disk and stepped jumped onto the lift which was already rising into the air. He wasn’t sure if it was the fatigue getting to his imagination or if the demon seemed to be fiercely grinning.

Nayt stepped out of the doorway and ran to the left. He shielded his eyes from the rising sun. Two people were walking straight towards him. The Sabaa!

He sprinted to the building across the street then pulled up his map when he was no longer blinded by the sun. An old and young Saba stepped into the building and close the door. They hadn’t seen him! The demon had told him to run towards the rising sun, which made him hard to see by the two walking towards him. Nayt would never have thought of that. Clever. Very clever.

Nayt rested his head against the cool stone. He had made it.

He was exhausted, and could barely keep his eyes open. Time for a nap back at the inn. He would just tell Gretchen he was sick. She would probably have business to do, and could give him a few hours to nap, right?

Nayt turned off the overlay of Peder’s image, which was still overlaid on top of his features. He made his way back to the inn and stepped in to see Gretchen sitting at a table eating a massive breakfast of chicken and eggs.

“Ah, there you are, sleepy head. Time to get going. We have a long day ahead of us!”

Nayt sighed in resignation.