Gretchen was in a foul mood.

First she woke up twice in the night from a loud howling siren. After running down the stairs, a guard had come in to tell them to stay put and that slavers had attacked the jail. She went to warn Nayt, but heard him sleeping peacefully and decided not to wake him. He was still snoring loudly.

She later woke up with the crowing of roosters, and banged on Nayt’s door to wake him. She went into the main room and ordered breakfast. Minutes later, a bleary-eyed Nayt entered from using the outhouse, and sat down with her. He looked worse than she felt.

“You slept through all the commotion last night. There was some sort of attack on the town.”

Nayt looked up, eyes wide.

“Um, what?”

“Everyone was running around shouting last night. Doesn’t anything wake you?”

“I guess I was tired from the hike.”

She grunted.

She watched as Nayt dug into the breakfast. The boy looked positively exhausted, still covered in dust and grime from yesterday’s walk. He needed more exercise in his life. And a bath. He spent too much time with books and sitting down in the Weavery. She resolved to give him an extra-vigorous day today. Presuming that they found Peder, of course.

After breakfast, he sullenly packed his gear while she paid for their stay and food. She talked the inn-keep down to one crown and 3 pfennigs, proud of her excellent haggling skills.

She decided her first stop would be the jail, then up to the mines to find the guard captain. They headed out, and Nayt dragged behind, complaining about blisters on his shoulder from the heavy pack.

Two dead bodies hung from gallows posts out front. Three others were open, with the nooses swinging threateningly. What town of 100 people needed five nooses?

The jail was a complete shambles. She entered, and four pairs of hands immediately went to weapons. She raised hers in a sign for peace, making sure the guard signal on her cloak was visible. But also making sure it showed her hard-sword and collection of knives that were within quick reach. All guardsmen were basically the same and needed to be reminded that women could be just as tough. These ones were surprisingly aggressive. She smiled.

“I am Gretchen, and this is Nayt. We are here from Weaver's Launch. We come in peace, looking for one of my guardsman named Peder.”

She held out a paper form stamped with a wax seal from Saba Takkai.

An ugly brute walked up to her, standing close enough that she could smell the dried sweat and onions from his last meal. His nose looked to be recently broken, and large dark circles were forming under his eyes. If anything, it made his ugly face look better. Gretchen observed that Nayt backed up as far as possible into the corner, his hands covering his stomach. He must be feeling woozy from all the food he wolfed down at breakfast.

The guard turned, looking between his compatriots. “Um…” was all he had a chance to say before a tall man stepped forward. He reached out a hand and gently pushed the guard to the side. Gretchen didn’t miss the ‘subtle’ display of power.

“I am Drang. The captain of this group. Joff here was just explaining how two slaver prisoners escaped last night. One of them was named Peder. The Saba should be arriving as soon as he completes morning prayers, perhaps you should join us while we set this story straight.” 

Drang rested his hand on the pommel of an iron sword hanging from his belt. Gretchen saw that it was well used. Another blatant show of power and wealth. This man Drang was large, with a big chest and a soft manner, but could obviously be dangerous when provoked. She liked him.

Gretchen again lifted her hands in peace, and Drang quickly read the document in her hand, nodding. “We are not looking for trouble. Our Sabaa sent us here yesterday to find our guardsman who was apparently helping one of your female guards chase slavers.”

The fat guard Joff made a small gurgling sound, then quickly put his hand over his mouth.

Drang turned to him, eyes going hard. “You have something to say?”

Joff squeaked, “I think he was here last night. We thought he was a slaver, and he escaped with that other slaver when they crashed through the wall.”

Gretchen stepped forward, “Last night? Escaped? You had one of my guardsmen in a cell?”

Drang raised a finger in warning, and Gretchen wisely quieted. Don’t upset the alpha in his own territory. “You say he was here with one of my female guards? We have no female guards in town. There are ten of us; all men. Who was this woman you spoke of?”

Gretchen turned to look at Nayt, and all the other eyes followed. Nayt was the one who had told her where Peder went, after all. He visibly paled under their attention, almost as though he were making up details on the spot. “Um, Yesterday. Around noon. She came into the clearing where we were practicing archery. She was wearing a cloak like yours and said there were slavers near and she was from Cat’s Cradle and needed help. Peder just handed me the bow and… took off running with her and told me to go back to town and tell Gretchen that he would be back soon.”

Gretchen glanced at Nayt and furrowed her brow. It was a slightly different version of the story than he had told her. Hadn’t Fiona said that she was shooting at the time? Was the boy lying about something? Hiding something? Or just tired and nervous? The July morning was already starting to heat up, which might explain why he was sweating so much. He did have the complete trust of the Sabaa after his heroics last month. She decided to give him the benefit of the doubt this time.

“Spawn.” Drang muttered, cursing. “Sounds like a honeytrap. The slavers from the Iron lands up north use tricks like that all the time to lure people away from town. Maybe they took him? Though I hadn’t heard of any activity that far south.”

“Then how did he wind up in your jail last night?” They turned to look at Joff, who was visibly trying to shrink.

“Umm.. Well…”

Gretchen noticed that Nayt seemed to be really enjoying Joff’s discomfort. She did, too. He was one of those types of men that liked to bully others, and they invariably found their way to trying to join the guard in every town. She did her best to kick that kind out back home.

“Well… he was walking outside last night and said he was looking for help. And, well, we had that other slaver in the cell. And, I figured, um, that he was trying to rescue him. But, he escaped with them, so maybe they were friends?”

Drang calmly took out a leather glove and smacked Joff in the face with it. Joff flinched, then touched his nose at the pain.

“Guards-woman Gretchen. It seems we owe you an apology. It appears that your guard was indeed here last night looking for aid, and we treated him unjustly. I understand your need to find your man. If you wish to continue your search, we will not stop you. We briefly spoke with our Sabaa this morning before he went to prayers. He told us his magic showed that two people were running to the Southeast after the jailbreak last night, but he wasn’t able to track their exact location. You may stay to ask him more if you wish he should arrive within an hour.”

Gretchen nodded. This was not good. She realized that the two of them could be on a wild goose chase for days at this rate. 

Peder must have seen the slaver use some sort of magic and chased after him to try to apprehend him. The boy always wanted to be a hero. There was no way the he would be in league with such demons, could there?

At least he was safe enough to go running off through the woods just a few hours ago. She would head southeast to at least look and loop back to Weaver's Launch to let the Sabaa know what had happened. If she couldn’t find him, they would just have to double their patrols. But Peder was a clever boy. There was a good chance he was halfway home by now.

She kicked herself that she had slept just a few hundred strides away when he was here in jail all night. The boy was like a ghost; always felt but never seen. She gently indicated for Drang to step to the side.

“Captain, may I ask a direct question? What is going on here? You look ready for war.”

Drang rubbed his eyes. “Gretchen, it’s a fair question. We’ve lost ten people to slavers over the last year. Their raids on us are getting worse and worse. And, we get no help from you in the South.”

“Captain, I had no idea it was this bad. I will let Captain Willis know back home. We may be able to help.”

“I would consider that a kindness. Our Saba has informed the Authority of the issue, but we have received no help as of yet.”

“I understand, and will see what I can do. We will take our leave then. We shall head south, looking for our man. Please, if you hear more of him, ask your Saba to send word to one of our Sabaa. Please convey my apologies for not meeting him in person, but I must find my man.”

As she left, she glanced at the hole in the back of the jail. It looked burned, but cut almost straight down. They had said that someone knocked a hole in the stone wall, but nothing could have made such straight lines in stone. Oh Gods. Hopefully Peder hadn’t gotten himself involved in some demon magic. Either he was dead by now or would have an excellent story.

Grinding her teeth, she started quickly hiking south, motioning Nayt to follow her out of town towards home. He sighed, and looked about to make an excuse, but she glared at him until he fell in line behind her. She resolved to double their pace today; both so that the boy could finally get some good exercise and also to improve their chances that she might run into Peder on their way back.

Nayt complained the entire way back that his legs ached. It took all of her self control to not snap at him. If Peder hadn’t been killed by demon worshippers, she was going to strangle him herself.