Fiona had finished putting her mother to sleep for the afternoon and sat down for the first time in what felt like days. She poured herself a mug of nettlevine tea, but barely sipped it. Even in the sweltering heat, she just wanted something warm and comforting to hold on to while her parents fought their various medical issues. Her parents normall had such dark beautiful skin, but today her mother looked much redder than usual and her father looked much paler.

Her mom had been doing much worse lately and had shrunk to half of her previous weight. With the deepening cough, Fiona wasn’t sure that the woman could last much longer. She recently had started crying out asking for her son Leo. Fiona didn’t have the heart to tell her that her son had died months ago from when the Sabaa had killed him. 

Fiona’s father was also still bedridden, but had finally stopped crying out in the night from the pain of his missing leg. He could sit up for most of the day, and was starting to suggest that he could go out and tend the chickens himself. It would be so nice to not have to deal with the filthy animals, Fiona thought. She much preferred pigs to those chickens. Especially in this oppressive heat wave.

A knock sounded, and Fiona sighed. Hopefully it wasn’t the town healer again. It was always so draining dealing with Healer Kathryn, and the lady always demanding more pay before trying out various ineffective medicines on her ailing parents. Even after the money from Nayt, Fiona still owed the lady 4 crowns. During her last visit, Kathryn had suggested that Retiring her mother might be the only option. Fiona had also punched her.

She walked to the door, and squared her shoulders before pulling it open. She wouldn’t let the woman see her look defeated.

Fiona pulled open the heavy wood door, and smiled brightly when she saw Gretchen and an exhausted Nayt behind her. The boy looked about ready to topple over. Fiona quickly stepped out, closing the door behind her. She really didn’t want Nayt or anyone else to know about her family or to pity her.

Gretchen spoke first, “Hoi Fiona. We just got back from Cat’s Cradle. Have you heard from Peder at all?”

Fiona stalled and gestured for Gretchen and Nayt to sit on the bench out by the pig sty. She glanced at Nayt and saw him shake is head. “No, Gretchen, but he never comes here. Didn’t he go to the barracks this morning?”

Fiona picked up a bucket of slop and tossed some old corn to Penelope. Gretchen sat down while Nayt seemed to collapse on the bench.

Gretchen gave a short summary of their trip up North. 

Afterwards, Fiona asked “You said they really saw Peder up in Cat’s Cradle and they had him in jail?”

Gretchen nodded and Nayt scowled at her. How had he managed to pull that off? He mush have used the demon magic. He was so clever to fool Gretchen and the Sabaa. Nayt always had the best adventures while she was stuck here feeding pigs.

The latched thumped and their front door opened. Oh no. Her father must have heard all the discussion outside. He was so sick and shouldn’t be getting out of bed. She turned to see him standing in the doorway, holding his stave as a crutch. He had at least pulled his hand through his curly hair, but it still stuck out at all angles.

“Fi, won’t you introduce me to your friends?”

He was weaving back in forth, obviously in a delusional state. He was wearing only an old brown shirt, leather short pants and the white bandage covering his stump. The white bandage was stained red and stood out against his jet-black skin.

Fiona’s cheeks turned red. She really didn’t want anyone to see him like this. “Dad, you should be in bed!”

Gretchen and Nayt quickly stood, and Gretchen bowed her head.

“Sir, I am Gretchen, Lieutenant of the Towns guard. We’ve… ah… met before. You and your wife used to teach dancing classes when I was a girl.”

Fiona hadn’t known that.

Nayt stepped up and shook his hand. “Sir, I’m Naytan. Fiona’s one of my best friends.”

Fiona’s cheeks blushed even deeper at that.

“Come in, come in. No use sitting out in the cold. Come in and have supper with us!”

It was burning hot outside, and Fiona shrugged when Gretchen and Nayt looked at her. She couldn’t meet their gaze.

Her father ushered them inside, using his crutch to almost push them inside. She hoped they wouldn’t disturb her mother’s sleep.

Fiona stepped in, steeling herself for their shocked reactions. She looked up and had to blink when she saw her mother sitting at the small table with the cup of tea in front of her. Like a perfectly respectable couple about to begin a tidy dinner. The remnants of a dear carcass were on the table, with a cloth over it to keep off the worst of the flies.

“Hello, dears.” Hey mother said, smiling and almost looking like her beautiful old self. Fiona could tell that she was tightly holding her smile, obviously in pain. Hopefully no one else noticed the gaunt expression on her darker cheeks or her trembling hand under the table.

Gretchen bowed. “Hello ma’am. I hope all is well. I haven’t seen you in years.”

Her mother peered up, trying to focus on the other woman’s face.

“Ah, it’s little Gretchen. It has been too long. I remember you as a tiny girl who loved to eat hard-boiled eggs. My, you’ve grown.”

It was Gretchen’s turn to blush. Fiona couldn’t image the large Gretchen as a child. The guards woman was a good 30 pounds heavier than most men in town, with shoulders like a bugbear.

Fiona’s father had been standing to the side, then swayed slightly on his foot. Fiona stood and caught him, but he waved her away and held on to the back of her mother’s chair. She saw that Nayt was staring at her father’s missing leg. She glared at him.

Nayt saw her then gave a sad smile. He was pitying her! She clenched her teeth in anger. How dare he.

Nayt stood and bowed his head, “We’re very sorry to bother you sir, ma’am. We just wanted to give Fiona some news. We must be on our way. It was very nice to meet you.”

Fiona ushered them out over their father’s protests that the two kids should stay for dinner. She sighed. Now she would have to get them back to bed.

“Dad, I’ll be back in a few minutes. Let me speak to them outside. Please help mother into bed.”

Her father just nodded, looking as if he had been scolded. Adults could be such children at times.

Fiona stepped out side and saw Gretchen and Nayt waiting beyond the pig pen. Penelope had rolled in mud and was trying her best to huddle in the shadows of the house, her fat bottom sticking out into the late afternoon sunlight. Fiona tossed the rest of the corn to her as well as some nuts she had in her pocket. Then she walked towards town, with Gretchen and Nayt silently falling into step along with her.

Everyone was quiet for the walk down the cobbled road. They passed a few farmhands on their way to Farmer Bauer’s fields, who were much nicer to Fiona now that she was walking with the imposing Gretchen.

Nayt finally spoke, “Fiona, I didn’t know your dad was so sick. You should have told me.”

Tears came unbidden to her eyes, “It’s OK. I don’t need your pity.”

Gretchen spoke up, sensing the younger girl wanted to change the subject. “Fiona, you don’t need to come with us. We were just going to the Sept again to tell the Sabaa that we haven’t found Peder. We just thought you should know what was going on.”

Fiona sighed, and thanked the guards woman. “Do you need Nayt to go with? I could go with him to his Mom’s and let her know he’s OK.”

Gretchen nodded, looking like she wouldn’t miss the younger boy’s company. “Good idea. One of you come stop by the Barracks tonight and I’ll let you know what the plan is to look for him. Saba Takkai could probably use his magic tomorrow to find him. I know he can find kids that are missing after a day and adults that are missing after three days. So, if he doesn’t show up, we’ll probably go get him tomorrow.”

Gretchen was standing in from of Nayt, so didn’t see his face as his eyes got big at that. Had he forgotten that the Sabaa had magic too? Fiona forced a smile. “OK, bye Gretchen. Thanks for telling me.”

Nayt also said goodbye to Gretchen, then he and Fiona turned off to head towards his house to the East. When Gretchen was out of sight, Nayt turned around and pointed back towards Fiona’s house.

“Fi, you really should have told me about your dad. I have something… let’s talk in your house.”

“No. He’s fine. Don’t worry about it.”

“Fi, really. Trust me. Don’t worry, I won’t hurt him.”

“What do you have? Is it…”

Nayt shushed her, looking around. She nodded realizing the Sabaa might be listening. They stepped back up to her porch, and she took a deep breath before letting him in.

Her Father stood up from sitting on his bed, excited to have company again. “Ah, you two, back already? Fiona, is this your boyfriend?”

“Dad, no! Nayt just had to tell me something.”

Her father nodded, smoothing his shirt and brushing fingers through his rumpled hair. He seemed unaware of how messy and dark the house was, or the snores coming from her mother who must have quickly fallen back asleep. Fiona felt like she could die from embarrassment. She hated anyone seeing her look weak… even if it was Nayt - given that he had pretty much seen her naked a few months ago in the river. That thought caused her to blush even further. She was getting tired of blushing.

Nayt stepped to her father, and held out his hand. “Sir, I’m sorry to interrupt. I have some medicine that you might be able to use… if you’ll let me see your leg.”

Her father hesitated. She had no idea where Nayt was going with this. She understood that he had somehow shifted over to worshipping demons, though he obviously didn’t think that was the case. She frankly didn’t care as anything that went against the Sabaa and their murdering church was fine by her.

Fiona stepped up to interrupt, but her father gently pushed her back. He reached down, and untied the cotton pant leg and bandage that his leg was wrapped in. It had already begun seeping and bleeding from the pus of the wounds. She changed the bandage every day for the past few months, but it still seemed mildly infected with red and blue streaks.

Nayt gasped, and looked woozy when he saw the raw stump. This was a bad idea. She stepped forward again, but this time Nayt said, “Fi, I’m OK. Let me try to help.”

He looked at the leg for a while, mumbling to himself. She couldn’t quite understand, but he seemed to be asking his magic demon details about the wound. Normally he seemed able to do his magic quietly, but he must be flustered from the smell of her father’s leg. He muttered something about medicine, and was making circles over her father’s stump. Her dad just watched, fascinated.

Nayt stood up, and pulled a small vial out of his pack. “This is some special medicine that I… was given. It’s a cream. I know it smells weird, but if you rub it over a wound, it’s really helpful.”

He handed it to Fiona, and whispered. “Books says to make sure to wash everything you touch his leg with in boiling water, and to use steam from boiling water on all the bandages. That will reduce the infections. Also, he’ll get really really hungry for the next few days. He’ll want meat, probably starting tomorrow. I’m sorry, but I used half of the vial already on other cuts. I didn’t know you needed it so badly. Also, Book says you need a lot of sunlight in here - it will help kill the infection.”

She took the vial and gave him a quick hug. He smelled like sweat and was completely covered in dirt. He must be exhausted, but it was so sweet that he thought of her father when he had other problems to take care of.

“I will” she promised him. She held him, and he just stared back, inches from her face. She tentatively smiled, but then released him when her father started snoring.

“What are we going to do about Peder? Gretchen said that the Sabaa will use their magic to find him tomorrow.”

Nayt sighed, and sat down on the floor, rubbing his legs. “I guess I’ll go get him tonight. I got all of the stuff to fix the spider.”

“I’m coming with you. Let me just put some of this cream on my dad’s leg, and we’ll go.”