Peder fell backwards and hit with a splash, water gushing into his nose. Fiona and Nayt blurred in front of his vision and he thought he saw a gnarled old face staring at him as he fought to get his head above water. Swimming here was weird, he kept flipping over and it took him a minute to get his head upright. Fiona and Nayt must have run to get help as they stepped away for a few seconds until a strong grip pull his hand up. The powerful hand gently placed him on the dark ground by Nayt and Fiona. They both rushed to help him stand and he coughed and sputtered water. “OK, we’ll go then. Blah. Don’t got to get violent, little slayer.”

He looked up at them dripping. They just stared at him in shock. By the Seven, why were they staring at him? It was just a little water. Freezing cold water. Why was the room so cold?

In fact, the entire air around them was suddenly chilly. Fiona and Nayt were rubbing their arms at the chill.

“What?” He said, looking around. He still had his father’s sword and checked his nose for buggers. None had leaked out in his quick swim. He wasn’t sure why they were staring at him like that.

He ran a hand through his hair, shaking off water. “Well, let’s go then.”

He reached out and grabbed the torch from Fiona, but Nayt was now holding it. Weird, he could have sworn she had a torch in her left hand when she had pushed him in with the right hand. Maybe she dropped it when they were looking for help?

Peder started walking up the ramp and the metal spider clink-clinked to follow him. He peered at it again.

“Hey guys, it looks like there must be two spiders.” This one looked the same and even had the similar scratches on one side. But it had both arms. Maybe it had been hiding down by the artificial lake below?

“Guys? Guys?” He looked to see Nayt and Fiona still staring at him, shivering at the bottom of the ramp. Did he have to lead them everywhere?

Nayt said, “Peder, how do you feel? Do you know what time it is?”

Peder chuckled not quite understanding the joke. “I’m fine, just wet. That water tastes funny, though. Kinda slimy. It’s, what, a little after noon? Yeah, I get it. We need to hurry so I get back in time for patrol.”

Fiona grinned, shaking her head. “You got that right.”

They started walking up the ramp behind him with the robot spider trailing them. As they walked he noticed that something didn’t seem quite right with its left arm. It was moving very jerkily, like it was halfway broken. Did these things just have bad left arms, or what? Looking closer, he could see that there was a rope tied around its joint. What did a metal spider need with rope? This just got weirder and weirder.

They got to the top and stopped in the half-light coming from outside the cave mouth, and Nayt put a hand on his shoulder. The light seemed weird, much darker than when they had gone down. Almost night. Old pieces of wood and broken barrels still lined the floor, but there seemed to be only half of them from what he remembered when they walked down the ramp.

“Peder, I have to tell you something. It’s going to sound really strange and you might not believe it.”

Peder just nodded, glancing around. The hairs on the back of his neck had risen. Something was going on; where was the other robot that they had sent upstairs? He looked around, noticing it was darker outside the cave then before. And in the brighter light he noticed that Nayt was all dirty. How long had they been down there?

Nayt launched into a story, walking through the details of Peder turning into a statue, the trip to tell Gretchen, and breaking into the Sept and Old building to the North. He finished by telling how they had just fixed the robot’s arm using some tools and the stuff Nayt had stolen. It was an amazing tale, and Peder whistled a few times throughout. At first, he had thought it was a joke, but then he pulled up his internal clock to see that two days had indeed passed. To him, it had felt like seconds. 

Peder paused, digesting everything he heard.

“So, this beautiful woman had a magic sword, huh?”

Nayt laughed, and Fiona punched Peder in the arm. “Is that all you think of? Girls and swords? You’re going to need a real good story of how you escaped the slavers.”

Peder chuckled, and clapped his two shorter friends on the back.

“You worry too much. I always think of something.”

“Peder?”

“Yeah?”

“How much time did it feel like you were swimming? Like, were you frozen?”

Peder thought about it. He remembered a blur of reddish movement, that maybe hadn’t been the water. “Hmm. It felt like you guys left me in there for maybe… a minute and a half? Maybe 100 seconds?”

Fiona spoke up, “Wow. So, it was a day and maybe 4 hours for us…”

Peder interrupted, “So each second for me was like 20 minutes for you. There are 25 hours in a day, 32 days each month, and 14 months in a year so it went about 1,000 times faster for me. What? Why are you staring at me? I just did all those demon-spawn math classes with the Sitta, OK? I can do simple math.”

Peder didn’t tell them that Sitta Naani had given him variations of the exact same math problem to practice with many times.

Nayt shrugged, “I was just surprised. She must be an amazing teacher. Can you rewind it and playback exactly how long it was?”

“What? Re-whatsies?”

Nayt sighed. Peder rolled his eyes. His friend always lost his sense of humor when he was tired. Nayt stuck out his hands, lowered one, wiggled some fingers in a circle, then spun it backwards. Peder did the same with his hands, and soon found the right controls that were labeled ‘recording’. He gasped as the last few minutes of what he saw played back in front of his face.

“Awesome!”

He experimented, speeding up and slowing down the playback. It was like a painter had been in his head, and captured everything exactly as he saw it instantly. Magic, though everything looked reddish.

Peder sighed contentedly, watching through the video. They had their adventure. Everything went perfectly. Truth be told, he had enough adventure for a while. Going on a patrol around town or sitting at the inn and having a drink with the other guards sounded more fun then all this climbing around in wet caves.

He found the spot of him falling in the water, sympathetically wincing as the him of a few hours ago splashed in backwards. He slowed it, and saw a reddish version of Nayt and Fiona stare at him, then quickly disappear out of the cave. He slowed the recording to it’s lowest setting, but things were still moving very quickly. A bit later in the recording, the room brightened again and a torch entered. A face bent down to stare at him. The red and wrinkly old angry face of Farmer Bauer.

Peder sighed. Of course, it couldn’t be that easy.

“Guys, we have a problem.”