Peder pointed in the air and played with his settings for a minute until he could show the picture in front of Nayt and Fiona.

Fiona cursed. “He found us. I thought he only came out during the Testings.”

Nayt shook his head. “He must have come back after the accident with the robot. Yesterday?”

Peder hummed to himself, thinking. He never had a problem with the farmer before but he might have one now. Farmer Bauer was one of the town Elders, and as such couldn’t be charged with a crime. 

Bauer knew about them; or at least about him. When he came back and found that Peder was missing or saw him in town, he would know that Peder had something to do with demons. Should Peder go to the Sabaa first and tell them about Bauer and the robots? They would then find out about Nayt and Fiona and his powers. They would be put to death as well.

If it was anyone else in town, Peder thought, they could threaten or bribe them into silence. But Bauer and his kids owned at least half of the town. He was richer than anyone else, other than the Sabaa, of course.

“We could just talk to him.” Peder meant it as a joke, but Nayt nodded.

“Good idea. Let’s go see him. But tomorrow. I’m really tired. I need sleep.”

He turned towards the cave opening.

Fiona put her hand on Nayt’s shoulder. “Don’t you need to do that thing with the coin like you told the demon? I could really use this payment thing it promised. Think we can get 10 crowns from it?”

Peder thought that Nayt really did look tired now. Even in the light of Fiona’s torch, he could see big purple bags had formed under his friend’s eyes. If the story were to be believed he hadn’t slept in two full days and looked ready to topple from his feet.

Nayt pat his pockets and removed the coin from within a mud-smeared belt pouch. “I almost forgot.”

“Spider? Can I give you this disk?” he held it out to the spider, which popped open a small slot on its chest. Nayt blinked at it, then inserted the disk.

The small lights in the spiders head went dark and it toppled to the ground with a crash. They three all stepped back, holding their breath. It looked like it had just died.

A few seconds later the lights came back on and it raised itself back up.

It spoke in a monotone voice, “Reboot in progress. Request permission to connect to network?”

Peder glanced at his friends then spoke, “Um. Sure. Whatever you need.”

It took a few paces towards the cave opening and turned around to face them. The spider lifted one leg and poked it outside of the cave, sticking it beyond the illusion of the rock. It seemed to take a deep breath then sigh metallically and pulled the leg back in, turning to face them.

The spider spoke in a deep resonant voice that was completely unlike the simple tones it had used before. “Thank you. You will indeed be repaid for your services. You have been transferred 100 colonial credits each.”

Peder noticed a new image had appeared in his view, off to the top right. It was a glowing green box that had the number 102 in it.

“Spawn, that’s cool. What’s a credit? It looks like I have more than 100?” he asked.

The spider spoke. “Yes, your great-ancestors had millions of credits saved up for their descendants. That has been split evenly between all of their offspring, and both you and Nayt have inherited 2 credits because of that.”

Nayt asked, “Just 2?”

The spider cocked its head, as if reading, then answered “This was many thousands of years ago. They have had over a million offspring. Almost everyone that has lived has some credits.”

Fiona cleared her throat, then said, “Yay. Great. What about me? How do we trust him? And how do I get credits? I don’t see anything.”

Peder could tell that she was starting to get frustrated. She was clenching her fists and tapping her feet at how long this all was taking. Why was she in such a hurry? He’s the one who had disappeared for days.

“I must honor my bargains and am not allowed to hurt any human. You can spend credits at any banking terminal or at any production facility. You can trade them, just like money. You can trade them for money. I suggest you don’t ask the Sabaa to trade them, as they are currently illegal, and they might kill you.”

Peder was about to ask how the spider suddenly became so talkative and smart. Before he could ask, Nayt interrupted him with another question.

“Where is the nearest place like that we can use credits? Can’t you go out and get things for us?”

The spider seemed to grin, and all of the lights in the glass head came on at once. “Why, right here of course. I can sell you a great many wonderful things. But, I am not allowed to leave this cave.”

Fiona stepped forward, with her hands on her hips. She was definitely getting mad. Fi the slayer. “Well, how many credits will it take to trade for 1 crown, then? I need two crowns for food and medicine tomorrow. You know, crowns like this?”

She held up a wooden crown coin, which the spider scanned with a red light.

The spider turned to face her, reached down and picked up a piece of the splintered wood on the floor with it’s damaged left arm. The claws on it’s right arm click-clicked together at a lightning fast rate, snipping into the wood. Two small pieces of wood fell, which it caught in midair, then pushed through an opening under its belly. A buzzing sound was soon followed by the smell of burned wood, and the spider lifted two perfectly formed crown coins into the air and handed them to Fiona.

The spider spoke very clearly. “Each credit you have is worth hundreds of crowns. Would you like to buy ten thousand crown coins right now? If so, would you like me to make two carts to carry them in? You’ll need to provide 4 mules to pull them, though. I do not have the facilities to manufacture animals.”

Fiona let out a small squeak and sat down, staring at her counterfeit coins. Peder laughed, both at Fiona’s shock and at the craziness of the day.

The spider grandly gestured with two arms and every surface in the cave brightened and filled with virtual pictures of… things. Cups, chairs, knives, helmets, tools, boxes, wheels, flowers, vials of colored liquid, metal vehicles like those Peder had seen in videos. Some were small, some were big, some were flashing and moving, spinning and twirling. Peder looked around, wide-eyed. As he looked at the floor, small toy men wrestled with each other. Flying metal birds flew through the air, crashing into each other and exploding. Fiona jumped backwards as piles of wooden credits opened from a hole in the ceiling and spilled out on top of her. Nothing was real, but she started laughing and giggling as the illusions covered them.

With its good arm, the spider pointed behind Peder. A half-visible wooden board had appeared, with magnificent swords and metal armor plates hung upon it. As he looked closer, small words appeared around each sword. Things like “Turns invisible,” or “Erupts with flames,” or “Wrist-mounted blade.” It was a treasure trove of the most amazing weapons he could imagine, and each had a price in credits listed; some starting at 10, but going up to 200 or an amazing set of matched blades that glowed with burning light and disappeared into the handles.

He looked at Nayt, who was staring at an entire wall full of tools and gears and pipes. Peder didn’t recognize most of the stuff, but Nayt was flitting between one item and the other, looking at it and bouncing excitedly from foot to foot.

Suddenly, all the items vanished and the spider stood in the middle of the quiet cave. The tone of voice left Peder with the impression that the robot would have smiled at their enthusiasm if it could have.

“Now, what may I sell to you today?”