The three friends walked back to town in a daze. The spider had given them something called a “catalog,” which Peder and Nayt could look at anytime in their heads. It was full of thousands of items: weapons, tools, toys, medicine, and many things they couldn’t understand called “bionic add-ons” or “spaceships”. The feeling of browsing through it all was delicious and exciting, though Nayt didn’t trust himself to buy anything when he was so tired. Fiona on the other hand wanted to buy everything she saw.

His eyelids were twitching and tingled with fatigue.

Fiona was bubbly, jumping up and down as they walked. Nayt felt even more tired just looking at her. “Did you see that bow? It was made of metal and the spider said it could shoot at least a hundred meters. And it helps you aim!”

Peder shook his head. “No, wait. No buying metal things. The Sabaa will detect it if you bring it into town.”

Nayt sighed. “Guys, what about Bauer? We need to talk to him.”

Peder said. “It’s not like he can tell the Sabaa about us. Even if we can’t charge him with a crime, the Sabaa can still Retire him if they think he’s working with demons.”

Fiona said, “Can’t we just buy his farm? We’re rich now!”

Nayt spoke up, “The Sabaa will wonder where all the money came from. We can’t spend too much at once. They’ll notice. And any new technology will also attract their attention.”

Peder said, “Bah. We’ll figure it out. First I have to explain things to Gretchen. Can you show me that trick with the map so that it looks like I’ve been wandering all over the North? And send me pictures of the guards so I know what they look like.”

Fiona said, “You’ve thought this true. Or are an excellent liar.”

Peder just chuckled, and wiggled his eyebrows at her.

She grabbed a purple leaf off of a nearby Faegrove tree and threw it at him.

Nayt said, “Hey guys, I really gotta go get some sleep. We’re about into town so no more discussions, OK? Fi, let’s not come back here unless we come together, agreed? Think through what you want to buy and we’ll all partner up. And, Peder, I need that sword back.”

They halted outside the line that marked the entrance to town. Fiona smiled then gave them each a quick hug. Peder reluctantly gave the sword back to Nayt, who hefted the heavy thing over his shoulder. 

Fiona and Nayt let Peder enter town first towards the barracks in the South, then hiked upwards a bit and walked into town towards their homes. Despite his fatigue he smiled at Fiona’s exuberance.

Nayt finally made it into his front door, replaced the large iron sword from Peder onto the wall, and stumbled to his bed and fell into the deepest, longest sleep of his life. His mother was snoring in the other room, and two empty bottles of viez were on the kitchen table.

Nayt was woken by gentle hands on his shoulder and a loud rumble in his stomach. He opened his eyes and realized he needed to pee like a horse. 

“Hi mom”.

“There’s my little hero. That cute little Fiona stopped by and told me about your adventure up to Cat’s Cradle. How was it?”

“Fine. I went with Gretchen.”

“And that’s why you took dad’s sword? I thought maybe you were going to sell it.”

“Mom! That’s not fair. I wouldn’t ever sell it.”

“Anyway, You slept all yesterday. But Master Peyton stopped by and told me to get your ‘lazy bum’ up after your vacation.”

Nayt smiled, imaging his gruff father making those claims. He was still having trouble keeping his real parents and his “adopted” mother straight. He thanked her for the breakfast and gave a massively edited version of his story, then ran off to work after taking a quick wash in the stream to clean off the accumulated dirt and smell of his journey.

The last thing his mother called out as he was leaving was that Jayna had stopped by to see him a number of times. Ugh, he had totally forgotten to tell her that he was back. He would maybe stop by at lunch to see how she was doing.

As he was heading to the weavery, he exchanged messages back and forth with Peder. Both of them had found hundreds of things in their catalogs that they wanted to buy. Peder discovered how to make a ‘shopping list’ of things, and currently had thousands of credits of items on it. He was having trouble choosing.

Nayt had checked online and on the rebel message board for things like the catalog or where you could buy stuff with credits. He found an old post from fifty years ago where someone was asking for 5 credits donation so that he could buy a blaster and that it was terribly urgent. Nayt searched for blaster, but couldn’t quite understand the results. There were no more posts in the rebel forum from the guy who had asked that, so he guessed that the result had turned out poorly.

Peder had apparently convinced Gretchen and the Sabaa that he had valiantly gone to help a guards woman, then discovered her trickery in time to escape, and how a big stupid guard had tried to jail him up north. While he was sleeping some slavers attacked the jail. He woke up and there was a big hole in the back of the building, so he just walked out and hiked back home without being noticed. Nayt and Peder and carefully worked out his map path history to match with the story, so that if they checked the times, his location would either match up to being in the jail that was marked private or in an area of town that wasn’t recorded.

Peder’s adventure was apparently the talk of the town, and everyone was calling him ‘Nosebreaker’ after Gretchen filled in how swollen guardsman Joff’s nose looked the next morning.

You’re becoming quite the hero, even though I’m the one who always gets punched, Nayt said.

Peder was in the middle of training exercises. Even though Gretchen was glad to have him back, she seemed to want to make him pay for leaving in the first place. Yeah, I just did 200 pushups. I don’t feel like much of a hero.

In the Weavery, Master Peyton had a stack of tasks for Nayt to work on.

“Boy, it’s about time you got back. We have orders for three more of your windowpanes. Darf’s been making glass plates all day yesterday. I need you to build those frames. They’re for Farmer Alde, so make them well. He always pays extra for quality.”

“Yes sir.” Nayt nodded, and got to work. It was so nice to not have the Master angry at him, and for people to actually want what he made. Of course, if he had some of those tools from the spider, he could make so much more. He got to work.

Nayt, did you see that we can buy things even from here? The catalog lets you buy small spells. Look, try this one.

Nayt looked around to make sure no one was watching, then reached out his hand to tap on the program that Peder had sent him.

The room went dark and a giant dragon ripped a hole through the ceiling. Nayt dropped his hammer, turning to run.

The image faded and Nayt looked around to see Master Peyton staring at him, shaking his head.

“Oops, sorry Master. I banged my thumb.”

Nayt picked up his tools and went back to work.

Nice, thanks. was all he sent to Peder.

Peder sent back a recording of himself laughing Ha ha ha ha ha ha.

Nayt shook his head then started grinning. It’s hard to stay mad at Peder for long. He didn’t realize that you could make recordings of yourself and send those, or that you could send programs along with your messages. That would be useful.

He worked through the morning and straight through lunch. He made five window frames, just in case there were more customers. As he worked, he browsed through the spider’s amazing catalog of items. Just as Peder had said, he found and purchased a 1 credit app that would recommend other apps to him. It also recommended information and articles based on what he was doing.

Nayt loved it; if he was cutting a board, it would pull up reminders on the type of wood used and other options. If he was looking up at the stars, it would pull up information on constellations or recommend apps for him to buy that would give more details on what he saw. He was amazed to learn that stars really were giant balls of fire, and that there were other planets out there just like his. It was like some of the things he saw in the old movies, with people flying between planets or living in other lands. Maybe someday he could do that.

Hey Nayt, I think I’m going to buy this suit of armor. It fits under clothes and protect from “fire, ice, swords, guns and space”. I don’t know what those last two are, but it’s best to be prepared, right? It’s 40 credits. Then, I could get this magical sword that springs out of a metal bracelet. Maybe the Sabaa won’t detect those. What do you think?

I don’t know. What happens if you get stabbed or have to use them and someone sees? They will know for sure.

Oh, yeah. That makes sense. It’s just there are so many options. And every thing has pages of details. It’s too much to read. Ooh, look at this one. It’s something called a “skill-wire” and lets your body exercise while you sleep. Awesome, I’d save so much time. And, I could just pretend I was sleepwalking.

Sounds dangerous, Peder. But whatever you want. I’m thinking about getting some tools. There’s this small knife that can cut anything including metal, or has a piece that lets you bend things together. Also, did you see this “metal fabricator”? It says you can dump in stone and it extracts the little bits of metal out of it. I could use that to build anything, then!

Yeah, but read the details. It says it takes about two tons of rock to make a fist-sized piece of iron. How will you lift two tons of rock?

Nayt shrugged. He hadn’t thought of that. Damn it.

Well, still. The spider will sell metal, too. Maybe I’ll just get it from him. Anyway, I got to finish this. I’ll talk to you later.

OK, see ya.

Nayt tested out the glass inside the window frames he had finished. They fit well, and only had a few impurities in them. He had built the panes with grooves on the sides so that when you twisted a wooden knob, one could slide down behind the other. It would let in sunlight, and sometimes could be opened to let in air. No one had ever heard of anything like it, and now that Saba Takkai wasn’t blocking his sales, everyone wanted one in this hot weather.

The sixth bell rang outside. He would be late for dinner. Nayt grabbed one of the extra window panes, thinking to take it as a gift to Fiona so that she could get more light into her house. Now that they were all rich, he guessed he wouldn’t need to sell them for profit.

He was whistling to himself and looking up instructions on glassblowing using Book as he walked home. Crash. He felt something hard hit his leg, then a crack as one of the glass panes shattered and fell onto the road.

He turned in shock, and saw a furious Jayna standing in the street holding a rock.

“Naytan Fabe, I can’t believe you!”

His eyes opened wide. He had meant to come see her at lunch, but had forgotten. Her face was streaked with tears.

“Hoi Jayna. I was just going to come see you.”

“Oh, yeah? It looks like you’re walking the opposite way from my house. I was so worried! I thought you were dead.”

She ran up and wrapped him in a big hug, crying into his shoulder. He gingerly guided her to the side of the road so she wouldn’t step in any glass. He knew from experience how much glass shards would hurt the foot.

“Um, I missed you too.” Truthfully, he wasn’t sure he had thought of her once while they were gone.

“Oh, Nayt. I lost you once to those slavers. And then you run off with Gretchen! For days! Did you sleep with her?”

“What? No! We had different rooms at the inn. Jayna, what’s wrong with you?”

“I just thought… oh, Nayt.” She cried some more, and Nayt just patted her awkwardly.

He walked her to his house, and invited her in to have dinner with his mother. Jayna happily accepted and helped his mom with the cooking while he tried telling them both the story again of his trip. His mom had brought home a leg of mutton, bacon and creme, and the roasting pig meat smelled amazing.

It was difficult to concentrate as they constantly interrupted him with questions. And Peder kept calling asking if he wanted to go back to the cave or get a drink at the Inn. There were too many people in his head, and he just wanted to go sit in his room and read.

Hours later, he walked Jayna home then went back and cleaned up the broken glass from the street. Finally, it was nearing midnight when he had some time alone to think. He still felt awake from all that sleep yesterday. He took a walk along the river, just relaxing in the peaceful sounds of the current before heading home.

Of course, he watched his map carefully, having set up alerts for any Saba that was near, or any one walking around with metal or anything suspicious. His vision was now crowded with windows, so that everywhere he looked data was being shown. He kinda liked it, though it was sometimes hard to walk without tripping.

It felt nice to be back in town, though he knew that they needed to figure out what to do with their credits in the cave. And he knew they really should have gone to see Farmer Bauer today, but just ran out of time. And, he needed to figure out what to do with Jayna. He didn’t want to admit it, but he was becoming annoyed with her antics. Maybe they shouldn’t date anymore. His life was becoming very interesting and a little dangerous, and she wan’t the type who would understand. He was just afraid that if he told her, she would break his arm and his leg in addition to any windows he was carrying.

As Nayt was about to head back towards home, he heard a creak out on the water. He looked out and saw a shape riding low in the darkness. He crouched down and pulled up his map. Sure enough, there was a dot moving on a small boat. He couldn’t see who it was, and no name was shown on the icon. There was also a large boat docked with three people at the pier, and the raft was going around it.

Nayt had seen this happen before. It seemed that the map vision could only show you the name of whom a dot was when there were either other people nearby, you recognized them, or they were close to a building. He wasn’t sure why, but when he saw people out in fields or near water, names didn’t automatically appear. One more mystery to solve.

Nayt wished he could tell who was on the boat, and then had an idea. He pulled up the catalog of items, and flipped to the section called apps. He had remembered seeing something and soon found it. It cost 1 credit to buy, and he soon bought and download an application to zoom in, and another for 3 credits to see in the dark. It took a few seconds to adjust, but suddenly his vision became much brighter and sharper. Book could enhance somethings for him in darkness, but now it felt like a bright sunny day.

With his new sight powers, Nayt zoomed in on the river and saw a flat-bottomed raft being piloted by Farmer Bauer. He was out pretty far on the other side of the river, and his raft was loaded with barrels. It was turning back up the stream through town towards the Farmer’s lands. What could he be doing out this late? Maybe this would be the perfect time to talk.

Nayt started following along, but soon fell behind the raft as it sped along the stream. He stopped in the middle of town and decided to go home rather than bugging the farmer at night. He was sure that the problems could all be solved by just talking to the man. Nayt was sure they could all just agreed to not tell the Sabaa anything about the cave.

He headed home, them remembered he needed to hide the extra repair kit and metal screws and metal silverware that he had stolen during his adventure. He kept panicking about it whenever he was near a Sabaa. They shouldn’t be able to detect such a small amount of metal especially when it was wrapped in so many layers of leather, but it still worried him.

As he walked over the bridge into town, Nayt decided it would be a fine place to hide the items. Last year, he helped Master Peyton and the other weavers re-cobble the bridge, and knew there were some loose stones underneath it. 

He looked around to make sure he was alone, so that the privacy filters would automatically not record anything of what he was doing. Once he was sure it was safe, Nayt walked down to the bank of the stream and reached up under the bridge. He stuck the motor and metal screws behind a loose stone and replaced it. It took less than a minute, and he was heading back home. He could come back later for them at night when he needed them. They would come in handy once he found a way to melt down metal reliably.

On the way back, he looked up articles on line for wound infections and leg regrowth techniques, and found some amazing designs for artificial limbs.