The next morning as Nayt arrived at the Weavery, he messaged Peder. His friend was back in the barracks, sleeping off a massive hangover from the night before. The other guards had taken him out to celebrate his victory over the slavers. Peder would be walking the afternoon guard shift, and he made bleary plans to meet with Nayt at that time and speak with farmer Bauer. Later, they would get Fiona and go to the cave to make their purchases.

Nayt had thought all night and decided to make a peace present for Jayna. He poured and sanded another pane of glass to replace the one for Fiona’s window, and then moved to the cutting room with three nice high-quality oak blocks. The blocks were large enough to cost him his last 2 crowns, but Nayt figured he would have thousands to spend soon enough.

He used Book to pull up designs of gears and help him with the math of cutting angles the right way. He couldn’t quite do all the numbers in his head, but there was a pattern to it. He borrowed Master Peyton’s oak saw, which was an extremely valuable short metal blade tipped by the sharp wing fin from a shrike. It was perfect for cutting through the harder oak wood, and could be turned sideways as a file to sand down rough pieces of wood. He had a dream last night about the gears from the robot arm, and wanted to see if he could use the same concept for something new. 

Testing it out on Jayna would be perfect, and might make a perfect “I’m sorry” gift if he was going to stop courting her.

Nayt had never before made a large set of gears, and the design he thought of last night required three gears that were each a hands-span in width. It took a number of tries and cuts, but after a few hours he made it work. He used his vision to superimpose lines coming out from the center of the wood blocks, which made cutting much easier. It was just too hard to keep all of that in his head though, and once he wrote it down and drew pictures to scale it made everything easier. One gear was about 8 inches wide, the second about 6, and the third about 4 with fins of wood coming off of it. After he made the three gears, even Master Peyton complimented him on the skill of his cutting and sanding. 

Next, he mounted the three to a board and made sure that turning one would turn the other two, and used water-proof resin over all of them. For the last step, he attached a wooden handle wrapped in leather that would function as a hand-crank to turn the largest.

An hour before noon, he had finished his milk stirring apparatus. It was mounted on a pail and the gears would got into the milk to spin. He mounted it on a pail of water, and everyone from the Weavery crowded around to look at the invention. By turning the handle that was on the largest gear, it would turn the next faster, and that would turn the third gear even faster. The fins on this third gear were going so fast and hard that it stirred and mixed the water, quickly frothing it. It would be perfect to help Jayna churn milk or make cheese, something which she wasted so much time with.

He walked over to the bakery and after some convincing, he got her to try it. She still was worried at the Sabaa being upset at new ideas, but he assured her that Saba Takkai was happy with him and wouldn’t worry. It took a little coaching, but she soon was laughing after he mounted it on a tub of milk. It worked well, and after some adjustments was stirring the milk easily. After mixing the milk, she then tried it first on egg whites and next on butter. He cautioned her to clean it well anytime after it touched eggs, something he learned when reading about infections. 

They then tried it on a batch of marshmallows, which were made by mixing sugar and a sap called gelatin. These were the most time-consuming thing that she normally cooked, and the machine helped greatly. After an hour of Testing and use, she was done with all of her work for the day. She guessed that the invention would cut her normal work day in half, and she suggested many things that the two of them could do now that she had so much more free time. Nayt blushed at half of them. This wasn’t really working well as a “let’s just be friends” gift.

He gulped and said he could stop by later for dinner, but had to go meet Peder for the afternoon. It apparently was the wrong thing to say, because she was crying again when he left. He wondered if he would ever understand girls. He had meant the gift as a token of friendship that he could use to convince her that they should break up, but it had backfired.

Peder was waiting by the cobblestone road that led up towards farmer Bauer’s lands.

“Hoi Nayt.”

“Hoi Peder.”

I’m totally going to buy that armor. The catalog said I can pay extra to make it undetectable. And, I found a sword that looks like lacquered wood but is as sharp as a diamond, and it will never break. No metal in it. 

Woah, Peder. Slow down. Let’s stop by Fi’s first, then go talk to Bauer. Then, we can go turn you into a super soldier.

The walkway up to Fiona’s house was crowded with farm hands finishing their shift and walking to the noontime marker. Many of them were talking excitedly, but Nayt wasn’t really paying attention to what they were saying. Something about a their boss sending everyone home.

The two knocked on Fiona’s door. Nayt heard a bump step bump sound, and her father opened the door while holding a cane. He saw Nayt and reached out to wrap him in a great bear hug.

“Um, hi, sir. This is Peder.”

“Come in, Nayt, come in. Maybe your friend can wait outside though.”

Peder nodded, lost in thought with his catalog. Nayt watched him sit on the bench outside and absently stroked Penelope the Pig’s muzzle. Nayt turned inside, and Fiona’s father excitedly shut the door. He pulled up his pant leg and thrust the leg out at Nayt.

“Come, look at my leg. It’s a miracle.”

Nayt gulped air at the smell that still came from the wound, but was amazed and how well it had healed. He pulled up recorded images from the other night, but it looked like an entire inch of skin and flesh had grown back on the leg. The wound was almost perfectly smooth.

Nayt opened the catalog and bought one of the medical apps for 3 credits. A wealth of information overlaid itself over the wound. Listing of recommended medicines, diagrams of bones and muscles, and exercises that would help regrown strength. Another message started blinking over Nayt’s own body as he looked down saying “Malnutrition” but he brushed that away. That was weird, he wasn’t malnourished. If anything, he could stand to lose a few pounds.

The visions were full of detail and somewhat disturbing. Nayt had never been good with blood or guts, but forced his mind to think of it like an engineering problem. Bones were just like wooden rods inside a leg. He didn’t recognize most of the words and terms that were shown over the medical display. He determined that the creme Salazaar had given him was helpful for flesh wounds, but wouldn’t regrow an entire limb or do much for internal damages. It would be easy to get lost in the complex images and diagrams from within a human body.

Fiona’s dad no longer needed his crutch, and could hop around pretty well on one leg and a wooden cane. Nayt recommended that he keep it clean, and suggested some stretches to help it heal.

“I feel so much better, boy! I owe you everything I got. I’m up and about. I feel great. I know this isn’t normal stuff, what you got there, and I ain’t gonna tell no one about it. Any chance you got any more? Or something that might help my missus?”

He handed Nayt the empty jar, which Nayt indicated that he could keep.

“I’m sorry sir. If I find anything that might help, I’ll bring it to you first.” Nayt was thinking that they might be able to buy some at the cave.

“Ah, one can hope. I do love her so much, and would love to dance with her again someday. You already saved my life, boy. I won’t forget it.”

Nayt made his excuses and left to meet Peder who was waiting outside. He whistled as he walked, feeling pretty good about himself. They hiked up the road towards farmer Bauer’s grand farmhouse.

Nayt, I’ve decided. I’m going to get that wooden sword and a pair of boots that keep your feet cool when you hike. Mine are always sweating. Then, I’ll get more things later.

Nayt pulled up his catalog again to check what he wanted. He was thinking that some of the larger tools looked perfect, he would just need to find someplace large where he could work undisturbed. Maybe he could have the spider dig another cave just for him?

A weird tingling started itching across his front torso and red icons began flashing in his eyes behind the catalog. He had felt something like that before. The itch narrowed in the region of his belly. It reminded him of when the invisible man had bunched him. Nayt stepped back, raising his arms up in front of his nose.

A sudden cool gurgle exploded in his belly, then blossomed into a red hot flare of pain. It burned, hurting more than anything he ever felt in his life.

Looking down, he saw a crossbow bolt sticking out of his stomach. The view was overlaid with a medical description indicating severe abdominal puncture, with fatal internal bleeding. He grabbed at it thinking that he had to get it out of him. Nayt screamed at the pain when his hand touched it. Large transparent words appeared over the wound. “DO NOT REMOVE BOLT. LAY DOWN. FOCUS ON BREATHING.”

Nayt’s vision was blurring. He wanted to vomit, but the stretching ripping sensation was more painful than could be imagined. Blood was gushing, trickling down his fingers and pooling on the ground. 

Large letters flashed in front of his eyes, flashing red. Murder A town-wide alert. He wondered briefly who had been killed, then realized it was him.

His memories went dark as Peder drew his shield from over his shoulder. His shield, one that Nayt had made. He hoped it worked. The last thing he heard was shouts from the farmer’s house, then a scream of pain from Peder.