Fiona let loose with her bow shot, then cursed. The bow was so powerful that the bolt looked to have gone clear through the moose’s shoulder and out the other side. The giant beast stumbled and let out a loud bellow, taking off in a run. She quickly aimed and shot it twice more, but it had enough momentum to crash through bushes and out of her range.

She swore. The snow was so thick that she wouldn’t be able to give decent chase. She had spent an hour tracking the giant moose, then sliding through the snow to get in range for the perfect shot. The bow worked excellent, the problem was with her. She still hadn’t quite prepared herself for her new muscles, or the power of the bow. She kept aiming too high, and needed to readjust her shooting.

Fiona pulled up her targeting system and changed some of the numbers there. After months of hunting, she had only stumbled on the settings yesterday. It was in some weird category called “marksman assistance”. She was just starting to pick up the ancient language that her data displays were written in, and had never before looked in that category because she wasn’t a man, and definitely wasn’t named Mark.

Calling back a video of the shot against the moose, she pulled still frames and used a virtual measuring app to calculate the difference. Her shot was 8 inches high and still slightly to the Right from a distance of 34 meters. She entered this into the spell, and it blinked green in acceptance. She picked out a tree at about the same distance, aimed at it, and was pleased to see a red target overlay on top of where she was aiming at. She released the bow. It flew almost perfectly, just slightly to the left. A few more adjustments, and the aim was perfect. She would need to repeat the process a few times at different distances and in different conditions, but already it was helping her hunting. The cold of the snow made the steel strings in the bow a little harder to pull, and the spell needed enough samples to adjust.

She shook her head, still marveling that she had a fortune in steel built into her bow. A year ago, she never would have imagined that she would be this rich or powerful. Fiona the Slayer, she could go anywhere and hunt anything.

The sun was just about to set, leaving one moon high in the sky along with the Candle. Before the priests had killed her, her mother had told her that was called the Dancing Sky. The same type of night when she’d met Fiona’s father in a Weinachts dance.

Well, today was Weinachts, and Fiona probably wouldn’t have anyone to dance with. No presents, no dinner with family and friends. She didn’t have time for falling in love anyway, not with so much adventure to do. She still had twenty rocks to place on this trip to the South.

Her mother had also told her stories of how warm the South was, and how they had huge open fields of golden wheat that stretched for thousands of acres in the afternoon sun. Well, she’d trekked a hundred miles South, and the only thing she saw was more snow. Maybe in the summer it would be warmer, but late December just meant cold to her.

She trudged back to camp and stoked the fire. She still had the remnants of the deer from yesterday, and it had plenty of meat for her. A deer could feed someone for an entire year, if they could store the meat. She would never be able to finish that much food, and had been hunting the moose for trade. Though, she did help herself to a thick and juicy steak after the day’s exertions. She had been carrying a loaf of choco bread just for tonight. Even if she was alone, she could still enjoy a giant Weinachts feast.

Ever since eating that strength pill, she’d had the hunger of a guardsman. It was slowing down lately, but for a while she just couldn’t ever eat enough. Her mother would never have approved of her unlady-like appetite.

In the last year, Fiona had done many things her mother probably wouldn’t have approved of.

Fiona pulled off her furs once she’d warmed by the fire. She really should talk to the spider about finding something else to wear. Her feet were freezing and her legs were burning with heat.

It was a beautiful early evening, and Fiona enjoyed the peace of laying back and looking at the stars. She was three days from the next Cent on her list. It was so peaceful out in the wilderness, with no human anywhere nearby. She was camped overlooking a large frozen river.

Fiona had taken a slight detour to go visit one of the giant craters that she had found on the map. It was massive, and must have been caused by either a huge war or something exploding from space long ago. She had been reading about meteors and craters online, and just couldn’t really get the appreciation of how big the craters were until she actually saw it.

It felt like she was on the side of a cliff, rather than a large hole in the ground. It was so big that she couldn’t see to the other side. The crater didn’t quite cover the river, but enough water had seeped out to form a small lake in the bottom of the hole down below. On the map, it looked like she was precisely on the edge of a giant city-sized wooden bowl. That was covered with trees and grass. Amazing. A perfect, beautiful spot to spend the Winter holiday.

Fiona checked in at the Crystal Caves, though she knew no one else was there yet. It was an area that she, Peder, and Nayt would use to meet up in the data space. It was a beautiful area full of giant green crystals, each sparkling in the refracted light from millions of stars. It sparkled, and she loved it. Nayt had designed the space, and cast the spells that made it private. He called it programming, but she didn’t like that term. Peder had set it up with enemies that would periodically rush in to attack them. She didn’t enjoy that part, but the boys sure did. He’d made her a sniper’s tower at the top of a crystal tower where she could shoot at any advancing hordes, which was kinda fun.

Fiona spent more and more time in the crystal caves. She had found an old set of music that she set to play constantly, and rotate through different songs and moods in each room. It was always different, always sad and haunting and beautiful. She’d also populated the area with animals of all types, and when she was bored she tried to give them realistic habits like sleeping and burrowing and mating.

All of this was a fun diversion, but her favorite thing to do in the crystal caves was to dance. Fiona had always loved movement and had watched the Weinachts dances with glee. Such grace and beauty. Her mother had always danced with her as a child, and dancing brought back her memory.

She had found a number of dancing apps and set them up to be used in the imaginary crystal caves. They were synced to her real body, so as she moved and danced around the fire, she could see hundreds of reflections of her movements in the crystal latticework. She had found thousands of songs from many worlds that each had different moves and rhythms to them. She longed to have met people from all the different cultures who could make such diverse music and think of the crazy moves that went along with them.

She danced for an hour, waiting for Nayt and peder to show up. The app highlighted areas where she was missing the steps in red, and rated her progress. She was getting better, and it felt so good to jump and move about next to the warm fire.

A chime sounded, letter her know that Nayt was arriving. She briefly thought about letting him watch her dance, but stopped the routine at the last second and went to meet him. Maybe someday she would work up the courage to dance with him. Possibly even face-to-face, instead of just having their spirits meet in the virtual world. She waved her hand, and her virtual self stopped the heavy panting and sweating, even though she still was showing the effects in the real world. 

“Hoi Fiona. Happy Weinachts.”

“Where’s Peder?”

Nayt glared. “That ass? With Jayna, of course.”

Fiona sighed. They two had been so testy lately, always griping at each other. They hadn’t gotten together to fight their imaginary battles for over a week. Fiona would have happily played along, if it would help the two relax.

Nayt continued, “He’s such a hero, now. He doesn’t have time for us little people anymore.”

“Is he still hanging out with your mom?”

“Yeah, he stops by the Stables every day. The horses don’t do much now that it’s snowing, so they just talk. I mean, she’s really his mom, so I wish he’d just tell her.”

“Why don’t you?”

“I just don’t feel right. She… isn’t very close to me. I think she likes him better.” 

Fiona just sighed. She was never good at emotional advice. At least the two boys had mothers that were still alive.

A second chime sounded, and Peder appeared. He was wearing a suit of metal armor, like one of the giant fighters in the video games he played. She had to admit, he cut a dashing figure. He waved at the two of them and made no apologies for being late.

“Hoi, Fi. You guys going to just hand out here all day? The dance is starting back in town.”

Nayt glared at him. “We should at least spend some time with Fiona. We can’t talk to her when the Saba are around back home.”

Peder waved his hand. “Hoi, Fi. Bye, Fi. Hope you’re enjoying your exploring. Now, can we go? Jayna’s waiting for me downstairs.”

Fiona saw Nayt clench his fists. He really was upset this time. “Can’t you focus on something else for one hour?”

Peder looked at Nayt, then shook his head in disgust. “You wanna talk about focus? That’s all you do. You go in the shop and build things all day long. You work like 14 hours a day. That’s why Jayna can’t stand you, you never paid her any attention. All you care about is your toys.”

Nayt puffed up his chest and stepped towards Peder. He looked ready to fight.

“At least I make something with my life. What do you do, town hero? Stand around and look pretty and have everyone tell you how brave you are?”

This time Peder flushed red. He took a swing at Nayt’s face, then cried out in pain before it connected.

He fell to his knees, clutching his hand.

Fiona rushed to his side. “What happened?”

“Damn it, I punched the stone wall in my room.”

Nayt just grinned at him. “You should be more careful, hero.”

Peder glared. “You did that on purpose! You were provoking me.”

Nayt shrugged. “You deserved it. It’s your own fault.”

“I’m out of here. Come to the dance if you want, but I don’t have time for this crap.”

Peder disappeared, leaving Nayt and Fiona in the crystal room. Music was playing in one of the back rooms, and she gestured to silence it.

“Sorry, Fi. I guess I’ll go to. Will I see you at the dance tonight?”

She sighed, then put her hand on his virtual shoulder.

“Sure. Sorry things are rough.”

Nayt just nodded, then waved. He disappeared. Fiona looked around the crystal caves of solitude. So much for a happy Weinachts. She blinked and disappeared as well.