Michure crawled forward through the snow, climbing over the stone wall towards the town. He waved back to his two squad mates, and saw their answering nods in the distance. He was ready to scout into town. They would come to his aid if necessary, though he knew it wouldn’t be. He never failed a mission. He was a ghost, and no one sees ghosts. Not even hungry ghosts.

I was the end of December. Undecimber would start in a few days. He hated the ‘frozen month’. Looking back through their planet’s history, he had learned that most considered the month of ice to be an unlucky one. It was the thirteenth month, and one that most be starved in. His unit couldn’t hunt well in this snow, so needed to find their food elsewhere.

He hovered on the boundary of the transparent line that marked the town limits. Ever since his awakening, he’d found these barriers fascinating to look at. If you stared hard enough, you could almost see the shimmer. It was all imaginary, all tricks that the ‘magic’ played in his eyes. He knew there was no real orange line drawn in the snow, but it still gave him pause. He adjusted the bracelet that his commander had given him. It glowed green in his sight, an indication that his invisibility was working. He took a hesitant step into the town, and no alarms went up. A perfect ghost. Nothing on the data displays. As far as the network was concerned, he didn’t exist.

He snuck through town in the direction of the large fire and music playing in the distance. He could see red glowing blobs where people were, so could easily avoid them. He saw floating specters of two Sabaa walking around town, but their virtual gaze passed right over them. His commander had warned that the Sabaa here in Weaver's Launch started doing intense patrols around town beginning back in September. They weren’t sure why, but it was right around time the new head Saba had arrived and Retired the old fat one. He didn’t understand, or especially care about the politics of these Southern kneelers.

As far as he was concerned, they were all pawns of the evil Authority, kept in the dark and force to kneel in servitude of their Authority. If they only knew the truth.

He wasn’t here for any of that, of course. His mission was to watch and learn, and optionally, to steal some extra food for his squad. The three of them were assigned to watch this stupid southern town for the next year, in preparation for the invasion that would happen next Winter. Wait, watch, learn. And eat.

The parties these people threw at the end of December were perfect for finding good eats.

Once the traveling Elves had left, he felt safe coming into town. The elves had a different kind of programming. They had modified themselves to the point that the typical software didn’t always work on them, and so they would see right through his ‘invisibility’. He’d been sneaking in every week to pick up food for his unit since they had gone. His commander had authorized it. They had followed the Elves off to the West for a bit, then come back to continue watching the town. His assignment was to track everything in the area and report on it. He had heard the elves say they were planning on returning for the Spring festival in a few months.

As predicted, Michure saw that almost everyone in town was in the town square, close to the giant circular stone building of their precious Sept. They had erected a huge bonfire to the South of it, in the area where their market stalls were usually set up. He had forgotten how large that square was. The wooden carts that were usually there made it seem cluttered. Now, it comfortably held 500 people dancing, drinking wine, and playing music. A huge party.

And a perfect chance for a ghost to pick up a few essentials.

Michure snuck into the bakery to the South, making sure to dodge a few of stragglers. The sky was totally dark except for stars, which helped him stay hidden. He quickly filled two bags with various sweet breads, cakes, and pies. Next stop to the butcher where he grabbed a king’s load of prime steaks. Most towns this time of Winter would be very tight on food, but this one seemed to have excess food everywhere. Good to know. And good for his friends’ hungry bellies. He passed a couple of teenagers kissing in an alley, but they didn’t even notice as he stepped right by them. He was invisible to their unawakened eyes. The same tricks that the Saba used for their ‘magic’ could be used against these children.

He continued on hitting a few other houses and buildings, grabbing any valuables he could find. There wasn’t much. These people were dirt poor. At most, the “wealthy” among them might own three pairs of clothes, or possibly a few scraps of metal. He kept looking, using the handheld metal detector he always carried as he walked through town. He was about to give up and return with his bounty when he crossed the bridge over the frozen creek, and the device beeped.

A minute later and he found a treasure trove hidden underneath an ice-covered stone beneath the walkway. He busted it open and found a set of metal silverware along with technical gadget. Someone in town had been naughty. Such items were banned by their laws, and if seen publicly would set off alarms. He carefully wrapped them and put them in his pouch, then silently made his way back to the edge of town.

He met his squad-mates and handed of the loot, then told them he would go back for some more recon. He really should try to find out who had been smuggling metal and technology. And, this drunken Winter party would be the best place to listen in undetected.

Ten minutes later, Michure was atop the Inn, where he had a perfect view of the square. He was right above the seats where the High Saba and the two young Sabaa were. They had no idea he was there, and he had a knife ready in case they somehow discovered him. He was looking through a pair of glass binoculars, which he could use to see everyone below. They had an audio pickup as well, which would isolate the conversations of whomever he was looking at. It combined the real world with what was in the data layers. He’d learned long ago not to trust just what you saw in the data-layers, especially since his current safety relied on not being seen within it. He’d only believe what was really there, thank you very much.

The dance was in full swing. Two lines of townsfolk were cavorting around the bonfire, all in various stages of dress and drunkenness. It was freezing cold on the outside, but looked to be scorching closer to the fire, where the younger ones had removed their winter furs and were prancing around in shorts and loose shirts. What peasants did for fun. 

Michure thought briefly of his wife and kids back home. He had four boys, all teenagers, and he missed them dearly. They would  love such an event. He shook his head. They were probably having their own party now, or in the practice fields practicing their fighting maneuvers. Everyone would participate in the upcoming invasion against the kneelers.

He focused back on his work. On watching, and learning more.

The glasses almost fell from his hands as he realized he was seeing the High Saba yelling at a young girl on the other side of the square. He checked again and verified that the High Saba was below him. Yes, so why was the man projecting his image in a verbal confrontation as well? He zoomed in, and the audio pickup relayed what they were saying.

“… Knew you’d be here. You can’t stay away from your homeland, can you? Why don’t you just give yourself up before we come and kill you?”

“If you knew where I really was, you’d have grabbed me my now. Face it, you stupid priests are idiots.”

“Young lady, I will not be spoken to me in this manner!”

“Whatever. You retired my parents and my brother. You can all burn from the Torch, for all I care.”

The High Saba clenched his teeth in anger. Michure had not seen the man so visibly upset before. This girl he was yelling at must be the legendary Fiona. She was short, though muscular and cute. She might make a good match for his eldest son.

“Why don’t you just leave me alone. I’m not doing anything, just watching the dancing. You’ll never find me. And, you obviously can’t stop me.”

“Yes, and why is that miss Fiona? Normally, I can detect the location of any citizen, can turn off their access. But with you, I can’t. Would you care to tell me you it was that Awakened you? Who your Master is? Maybe he and I could have a little chat.”

“Hah. Do you really think just because I’m 14, I’m stupid?”

“Yes.”

She looked at the older man, and gestured. A big pile of manure manifested on top of him and dropped over his virtual image. Despite himself, Michure laughed. He caught another boy laughing as well from within his binoculars. Oh, really?

The High Saba waved the pile away, annoyed, then disappeared, walking on another patrol of the town. Score one for the girl.

Michure turned to look at the other boy who had laughed. A short kid, with dark black hair playing a guitar. He had been looking toward the fight between Fiona and the Saba, but now was pointedly looking away. He knew. He was awakened. Michure zoomed in on him and saw that his name was Naytan, and he was a Maker here in town. Someone to watch. A potential ally? Possibly the person that had been smuggling the technology? It would be worth looking into.

As he watched, he could see the spirit image of Fiona start dancing, joining in with the rest of the dancers. She was good, though he found it sad. An outcast girl with no family that obviously longed for community, and missed her town. Hunted by the Saba. He wished that he could reach out to her, could invite her to the North Lands. She would be a good ally. She did not seem the type that would kneel to a lord. But, that was not his mission. His mission was to collect information. He kept watching.

The boy Naytan was soon approached my a much bigger boy dressed in a finely-spun tunic. He had a blond beauty on his arm, and she was blushing from too much wine. She was giggling and every boy that they passed turned to watch her. Michure immediately disliked her. Girls like this were always trouble.

The large boy, his name display said Peder, walked up and started speaking harshly to Naytan. Peder’s right hand was wrapped in a splint, and he was waving it franticly at the smaller boy. The audio didn’t engage in time to hear everything, but he’d seen enough teenager fights to get the general idea. Blah blah, jealous. Blah blah, pretty girl. Blah blah, punch in the face. The two were soon rolling on the ground punching at each other, and Michure lost interest. Even if Naytan was awakened, he wouldn’t be much use as a contact until he grew up a bit. He made it a note to contact him in a year and moved on.

After another hour, the party was dying down. The main event was about to occur. Michure hated these, but decided to stick around in case anything else important happened.

An old man and woman stood up, and the crowd shushed. The man was one Michure recognized. He’d followed the two down from Cat’s Cradle yesterday. Another kneeler, voluntarily going to seek his Retirement now that he’d reached the age of 50.

The man spoke loudly, turning to face the three Sabaa below.

“Father Saba, thank you for letting me share your revelry. It was a fine party. We in Cat’s Cradle knew our brothers to the South to be a fine Pent, full of good cheer and friendship. Thank you for making our last night a wonderful one. We don’t have Retirements in our little Cent, so thank you again for allowing our final resting place to be with your ancestors.”

He belched, then turned and held his wife’s hand.

“And thank you for the wine. We are ready.”

The High Saba below nodded, then turned to the Sept. He gestured, and a door opened on the building.

Michure hated this part. He couldn’t believe that these idiots kept falling for the same ruse over and over.

The High Saba gestured and the two giant Servitors walked out to collect the man and his wife and take them inside the Sept. The people looked scared, but resolute. The giant robots looked tall and deadly. It was all over in seconds, instead of the usual Retirements he’d seen. This Saba was unlike any other Michure had seen. He didn’t say much, just a few sentences to the crowd. Even though short, his black robes seemed sinister standing in front of a white snowbank.

“It is Weinachts, the end of December. Next month will be Undecimber, and full of ice and the end of the year. One year closer to the end of the world. You will all die unless you accept salvation and everlasting life from us. From the church. The fire of the Torch will burn and destroy you all. Any rebellion will mean you don’t get to be saved. Remember this, if you see the rebel Fiona or any other traitors. It is death to disobey us. When you’re freezing inside your huts this next month, remember that I have offered food and money and heat for her capture.”

He turned, then walked into the Sept. The music had stopped, and five hundred people stared at him in wordless shock.

“Oh, and Happy Weinachts.”