Fiona lost track of where she was going. She just had to get away from the horrible town, the horrible Sept, and especially the horrible lying priests. She would run away. Keep running north, past the village of Cat's Cradle and into the Iron Lands to find work with the outcasts working at the mines up there.

Fiona ran until her legs hurt, until her lungs burned. The flask of sap was banging into her leg, bruising it. She wanted the hurt, wanted the pain, wanted to die, just like her brother.

Slumping against the old gnarled trunk of a massive oak tree, she buried her head in her fists and cried. Tears streamed, mixing with the mossy scent of the oak and a sharp rusty smell that she couldn't place.

Taking a shuddering breath, Fiona looked up and around the dark grove. Where was she? She peered up and saw that it wasn't an oak, but a Faegrove handtree. Strong branches spread out above her for many strides in every direction. It was huge; her family's cabin could fit under it. Twice. Handtrees were called that because they looked like a huge hand sprouting from the ground, with a thick barky wrist and strong finger-like thick branches full of dense purple leaves.

A sudden tingling in her back quieted her sobs. At first she thought that she'd sat in an ant hill. It started as a light tickle across the whole of her back and then became an intense itching on her left shoulder. A second, piercing buzz in the upper left of her neck froze in place. Oh Gods, no! Terror gripped her, and she took a deep breath in panic. Her arm trembled. She knew that feeling, that warning of danger.

The priests said the buzzing was a gift from the Gods. From the Three and the Four. It was magic given to people long ago to warn them of danger.

She had never felt the sense so strongly before. She was in trouble. Someone or something must be behind her, behind the tree. She had to face it. To defend herself. 

"Hello? Is someone there?" She'd meant it to sound confident but it came out in a shaky whisper.

There was no answer.

Fiona unslung the bow from her shoulder and fumbled an arrow onto it, waiting and trying to stop her arm from trembling. Focusing to quiet her breathing like Leo had taught her despite the fear. What had he always said to do when she was scared? Focus.

 Just thinking of him made her take an involuntary sharp breath and then she heard the sound. Her eyes snapped open, and she bit her lip. A snap of a twig from a bush behind the tree. Something must have been sneaking up behind her. Stalking her.

The reek of it was overpowering. It was a cloying scent, strong and both sweet and sour. It made her want to vomit. Bear. Unwashed bear. She remembered that smell from once when her father had brought one home from a hunt. 

It seemed a different lifetime, a different world. 

Focus, she thought desperately to herself. She turned around and quickly glanced beyond the handtree trunk. There was a large bush sitting in a patch of sunlight beyond the tree. Full of thick overgrown leaves, it was taller than she was. More of a thick veiny tree, dark and pocked with poisonous white thornberries. It was about five strides away. Fifteen feet. Enough distance for her to run? Not if it held what she thought. She gulped, praying that she was wrong.

The bush shook ominously, definitely something was in it. Dangerous. But it wasn't taller than the bush, so it must not have been a bear. It sure smelled like one though. What was it? She had to think, to breathe regularly. Leo would have known. Would have been able to focus on what to do next. She pulled back the bowstring, holding it to the side so she could still see. It wasn't coming closer yet. Maybe it didn't know she was here?

She ducked back putting the tree trunk behind her back and glanced around the clearing. She needed a plan just like Leo always told her. She calmed her breathing and forced herself to look. She saw her surroundings with new attentiveness. Scratches on the trees, close to the ground. Clawed footprints in dried mud off to the side of the clearing. Maybe even a trickle of water in the distance, a good drinking area for animals. Not a goblin lair, they wouldn't scratch trees like that. Bear marks would be higher up.

Suddenly she realized what the monster was. Not a bear. A bugbear: shorter than many bears, but much faster and more aggressive. Like a cross between a bear and a leopard, but with boney plates on the outside of its body. The stories said they were created by evil wizards years ago for meat but they had escaped and killed everyone. And she had run screaming right into its territory. 

Fiona wanted to run. She couldn't think. She could make it. The sound of water was off to the left. Maybe she could make it. She'd always been a fast sprinter.

Then she remembered the stories of bugbears. They were fast, and every hunter said they became most aggressive when you ran from them. She couldn't run. It would get her for sure. She had to face it. Maybe she could wound it or scare it off?

She had started breathing so hard that her vision was becoming cloudy. She took a deep breath and fought to calm herself. If it killed her, then at least she'd be with her brother Leo.

She slowly let go of the bowstring, then reached her trembling hand down and unfastened the knife from her belt. She would shoot, and then grab the knife while turning to face the tree and the bush behind it. It was her knife, given to her by Leo when she turned 14 last year. A birthday present, he had called it. 

Focus, stop thinking about Leo. Grabbing the bowstring again, she notched an arrow and aimed, pulling back on the heavy string. Her arm trembled at the weight. The knife in her hand was making it hard to hold the string at the same time. Stupid, what was she thinking. She started backing away towards the water sounds, keeping the bush in front of her.

Another intense buzz, this time in her chest.The danger was right in front of her. The dark bush shook and a grunting bugbear charged out straight at her legs. She gasped at the sight of its long sharp tusks and bony carapace.

Fiona's hand shook on the bowstring while also clutching the knife. She tried to aim at the rushing deadly blur that was low to the ground.

The arrow sprang from her bow, thwacking into the dirt.

He kept coming, snarling and honking. Kids at school had made fun of the bugbear honk, but she wasn't laughing now. That sound would haunt her dreams. If she lived.

She fought the urge to run. Dropping her bow and knife, she reached over and scrambled up the tree beside her. It was large and round, and the gnarly bark had enough footholds for her to scramble up quickly. The bugbear charged by, tearing at her right leg with his tusk. Putrid air hit her nostrils, and she fought the urge to throw up from the stink. Her foot was warm as she climbed, quietly sobbing at this new terror.

Fiona was only able to pull herself four feet above the ground before the branches became very dense. The wood on the branches was so smooth that it was hard to get a good hold. She probably could have made it through the thinner branches up above, but she was stuck clinging upside down to one that she couldn't swing on top of. Her arms and legs were wrapped around the thick branch parallel to the ground. It was enough to get out of the bugbear’s immediate reach if she pulled herself up tightly. Her arms were getting sore and she couldn't feel her foot.

She looked down. Her right leg was bleeding. It was bleeding a lot. She knew that her father would be angry that she'd gone into the forest alone. Her mother would be angry that she'd ripped her only good pants. Of course the forest was dangerous. But whom could she go with now that Leo was gone? She shook her head, realizing that she was starting to daydream from loss of blood. She felt dizzy.

The bugbear had reached the end of the clearing and turned around. It stretched up the trunk and raked at her with long sharp claws. More blood, and this time she screamed at the pain. She didn't want to die. Couldn't die. Not today. If her parents lost both children on the same day, it would push them over the edge. The pain was making it hard to concentrate. She sniffed, then concentrated her thoughts. She could cry later.

She finally got her feet up and wedged into the tree, though one of the cheap wooden sandals fell off her foot to join her bow and knife below. She probably looked ridiculous, with her arms around the branches and her butt sticking out. Whatever, it was enough to get her out of range of those evil claws. The honking increased, more frustrated and angry now than threatening.

She couldn't hang here all day. She needed to climb higher, but couldn't loosen her arms to do so or she might fall. She tried to swing over onto the top of the branch, but couldn't. The tears returned in force, and that angered her even more.

What would Leo do? He was the one training to be a huntsman, and had taught her everything he knew. He would make a plan. She needed a plan. Or, he was so strong that he would have pulled himself up the branch and climbed the tree, and then just waited for the thing to leave. She was so close to safety, just was too weak to pull herself up. She'd have to think her way out of this.

She took stock. Five arrows in a leather quiver strung across her left shoulder that she couldn't reach. On her belt she had two knifes and a few flasks of sap and a pouch of berries. She couldn't reach for anything on her belt, or she would lose her grip around the branch and fall. Her arms were quivering with the strain of hanging around the stupid tree.

What could she do with a flask of sap against a bugbear? Nothing. If only she had some salt, maybe she could choke the beast by hardening the sap as it ate her dead body. Take her enemy out along with her. 

An idea came to her. Fiona could use the sap. It might work. Master Peyton would be upset at losing both the saltsap and the flask, but that couldn't be helped. She would pray to the Three and the Four Gods, maybe they would help her as well.

Shuffling her crossed arms, Fiona tried to reach around the branch with her right hand to pull an arrow from the quiver on her left shoulder. The quiver was tied tightly to her back with an open end by her neck. She couldn't reach it with her hands without losing her grip on the branch. If she moved her hands any more, she would certainly fall. But she could reach it with her mouth. Carefully, she turned her head and bit one of the arrows by the feathered shaft, pulling it out and gripping it with her teeth. 

She wished that she could reach her extra belt knife and use that, but she'd lose her grip for sure. Instead she would just have to use her teeth. She bit hard on the end of the arrow and pushed it lower into the quiver. Her lip cut on the sharp fletchings and began bleeding as well. She cringed at how long it took to force the arrow to split the leather bottom of her quiver.

All of the arrows other that the one in her mouth slipped out of her punctured quiver to fall towards the bear. Of course they all failed to hurt the wretched bugbear. So much for help from the Seven.

Reaching down with the sharp point of the arrow in her mouth, she stabbed at the flask of saltsap on her belt. It took two tries, but she finally sliced through the tough outer skin of the flask. Fiona gasped as the arrow accidentally scratched across her thigh, scraping across like fire. A fresh furious honking from below brought back her focus.

The saltsap trickled out of the large flask, and she stretched out her leg so that the thin liquid trickled over her bloody foot and dripped down. The saltsap would mix with her blood and thicken into an amber glue. She remembered from her classes that blood was mostly salty water. Hopefully.

The liquid trickled down her leg, tickling her. Her foot was no longer hot. It felt cold. So cold. The honks and grunts beneath her turned to growls, then to slurping sounds. Of course bugbears wouldn't normally eat saltsap, but a predator would lick up blood.

Glancing down, she saw that the bugbear was voraciously licking up the last of the spilled saltsap and blood. She waited and her breath heaved in her chest. Her arms hurt so much, and were shaking violently. She had lost so much blood. She had to hold on just a little longer.

Burps and then furious honks sounded from underneath. The bugbear was shaking its head, trying to claw at his own face. The saltsap had worked, clogging its lips and mouth together, distracting it. Frantically it clawed and sliced into its own nose. Enraged, it spun in circles then slammed forward, shaking the tree so much that she almost fell. It continued bumbling about, and seemed to forget about her.

Fiona waited until the bugbear was about fifteen feet away then tried to lower herself from the tree quietly. She planned to run off without it noticing, but she must have been dizzier than she thought because she fell awkwardly and landed with a thump onto her knees. It made enough noise that the thing turned towards her, gurgling in outrage. It had hurt its leg, and was limping towards her.

She shook her head to clear it, then reached over to pick up one of the dropped arrows and the bow from the ground. It was bent at a bad angle where the creature had stepped on it, but didn't look cracked. It would work. It had to work.

She was done praying. Done with the Three and the Four. From now on, she would take care of herself.

Fiona drew the bow one last time, fit the arrow and shot through the bugbear's neck.