Fiona cleaned her knives in the stream after carving the best meat from the bugbear. She had to blink to stay awake and her head felt woozy.The saltsap had formed a solid bandage around her cut leg and foot but they were still very sore and bled when she moved. She had spent an hour sitting next to the river, regaining her wits and eating berries. It helped, but she was now fighting to stay awake after carving up her prize.

Usually skinning an animal was exhausting but bugbears had thin skin under their bony outer plates, so it was mostly a process of popping them off and carving out the good parts. She took only the most valuable pieces of steak, leaving over half of the meat. She cut up pounds of rib-eye and short-loin, keeping everything that was well marbled and tender. She had nothing to carry the meat in, so pulled off her leather shirt and used it as a sack. A bloody sack with arms made of steak. She shivered in the cooling air, naked from the waist up except for a tattered cloth undershirt.

Honk.

Fiona looked up, sucking in air. Another bugbear? The sound was still a few hundred meters off, past the handtree where she’d fought the first beast. Bugbears usually lived in packs.

What should she do?

She couldn't stay here and needed to get the meat back home. That much meat would feed her family for a month as well as earn at least ten crowns from the butcher. She was too tired to carry it over her back and her leg was throbbing and still seeping blood. She needed another way to get home and didn’t think her wounded leg would last walking a mile through the forest. Especially not if being chased by a family of pissed off honking bugbears.

The river.

There was a rustling now coming from the bushes. She had to hurry.

She dragged the bag of dead bugbear to the stream, and placed both 'arms' over a large floating log. She jumped into the chilly water and held on as well to the grizzly package. Her leg flared in pain.

She racked her brains. Could bugbears swim?

Honk, honk.

Two bugbears were snuffling back and forth on the stream-bed where she had sat. Both were larger than the first, with large deadly-looking tusks. They spotted her and charged towards the water but stopped when they were only a few inches in. Honk! They bellowed at her.

But they didn’t follow.

Fiona let out a deep breath and held on to the floating branch. She was slowly being pulled downstream, towards the Harper River, and hopefully towards town.

A bump startled her, and she turned over. She opened her mouth to breathe and inhaled water. Oh, that burned. 

Coughing and spurting, she got her head above water and coughed mud until she could breath again. Where was she?

She must have dozed off. Her leg was throbbing and she was shivering uncontrollably. She just wanted to sleep. To let go and nap. But she couldn’t. Had to fight through.

Looking around she saw that the shirt full of meat had slipped off and had lodged onto a rock sticking out of the water a few feet away. Her log was likewise caught on another rock, along with a floating pile of branches and leaves. A rope was tangled on the rock.

 The rope seemed perfectly new and not frayed at all or even dirty. Who would leave such nice valuable rope all the way out here?

She grabbed it and looped it around the branch and her waist. She made the other end into a noose, and threw it over and around the bag of meat. She struggled and almost dunked herself again trying to get her prize, but finally pulled in the bag and lashed it to the branch as well.

Once everything was secured, she pushed off the rock, and her makeshift raft was floating free again. Her arms shook with cold and exhaustion. A bad sign.

The stream soon emptied into the larger Harper River, tumbling her upside down and knocking the log painfully into her head when it poured out into the larger waterway. It struck with a thump of pain. She would have screamed in frustration but she was too busy struggling to keep her head out of water.

Fiona could barely see flickering lamps in the distance. Weavers Launch. Safety.

Shaking to clear her head, Fiona swam towards town, towing the meat package behind her. She was starving and could barely keep afloat. The river was 60 feet wide on average with deep dark waters. Small branches whipped by in the heavy current. She tried her best to stay close to the town side. The bow around her shoulders would occasionally bob up to choke her.

The evening was dark enough that no one was likely to see her. She hoped. She was naked from the waist up and covered with scratches and bruises. She had a chunk of solid saltsap stuck in her hair. She looked terrible. Her mother would be so embarrassed at her unladylike appearance. Maybe she could get to the Weavery where she worked and Missus Peyton could help her if she hadn’t gone home for the evening. Oh please, please, still be there. She could just barely see the pier next to the stone weavery building. She could smell the strong dyes and smoky chemical tang even from here.

As the river pulled her downstream Fiona tried to grab the pier. She missed. As she tumbled by, she cursed and started paddling back with all of her strength, but the log and sack of meat kept pulling her back with the current. There was a stone hook jutting out from the pier. She reached out and got one hand around it, but could barely hold on. The water kept lapping over her head, pulling her face under water again and again. She looked up as a sudden light appearing above her.

Someone was on the deck, sweeping. A short, chunky boy with jerky movements. It must be Nayt, her brother’s friend. 

Nayt, her brother Leo, and Peder had been best friends, and she had tailed the three everywhere. Peder had always called her Fido, because she was short and followed them around like a dog. 

She was drifting again, both mentally as well as through the water. She gurgled. Had her head just been underwater? The rope was dragging her down. It would be so easy to just let go, to just take a little nap in the river.

"Nayt," she called, more of a watery croak than a yell. He paused and looked around, then bent over and picked up a glass lantern. She could see him clearer now, though water stung her eyes. He was short with black hair and a relatively thick chest for a 14 year old boy. He was plump with acne all over his face. Her savior.

"Here”, she blurted between breaths, trying to keep her head up. She was so tired.

"Hoi, Fiona. You OK? Who's that?" He looked sad. Probably still mourning the news of her brother, Leo’s, death. Was that just this morning? He had lost a brother years ago, too, she remembered. He knew how it felt.

"Help me," another croak. She wasn't sure how much longer she could hold on.

"Fiona? Fi! Help!" he shouted. He must have realized there was a problem. Nayt jumped into the water next to her, and got her flailing arm around his shoulder. Realizing that she was tied to the floating body, he pulled it close and tried to help up her floating friend.

If she wasn’t drowning, she could have laughed at the look on his face when he saw her “friend” had no hands, legs, or even a head. He hooked his arm to the pier and pulled them up onto a walkway.

Nayt was asking her questions, but she had trouble concentrating enough to reply. It sounded like Nayt had thought that she had stolen her brother’s body from the Sabaa, then realized it was a dead animal wrapped in her bloody shirt. She started laughing, then choking from the water.

He pulled the coughing Fiona up onto the pier, untangled her bow and held her to warm her up. She puked water and mud all over his back. He just held on, patting her back and helping her breathe.

Footsteps were thumping above her, and Missus Peyton came running down at the commotion. Nayt had also pulled the bloody half torso onto the pier and the woman shrieked when she saw the bloody meat. He explained that she must have been hunting and took a shortcut back. 

The matronly woman shook her head and turned to Fiona. 

“Fiona, your leg. It’s covered in blood. And why are you naked?”

Fiona glanced up at Nayt, but he turned away from her naked chest, blushing. 

"I killed a bear. I was hungry” she explained and then passed out.