Gretchen shook her head, staring at Saba Takkai. Her annoyance was bubbling over. “Nayt has been unconscious since he was shot. Do you think he’s summoning demons in his sleep?”

She immediately regretted her words. They had just been in this stuffy room in the back of the Sept for hours. She was being rude to the Saba. “I’m sorry, sir. Please forgive my outburst.”

Sitta Aimee and Sitta Naani were also here but unfortunately Saba Eetho was out teaching classes. She had been hoping to see him.

Guards-captain Willis raised a hand. Saba Takkai frowned, then nodded at the Captain.

“If I may request, lord Saba, do you require the guard to continue investigating this? We’ve examined all of the claims by Zeke Bauer. Neither Nayt nor Peder seem to have anything to do with demons. Unless his father said anything before his retirement, we just have his word on the issue. And, all we know is he claimed to see two boys in a dark cave that looked like Peder. During the time that we know Peder and Nayt were both in the North with Gretchen. Shouldn’t we be spending our time defending the town from the slavers that kidnapped Percy and Udo last month? And shouldn’t someone get Zeke out of that damned house?”

Saba Takkai raised his hand for silence. He seemed to be listening then nodded at the empty chair. Gretchen thought that he looked very old, and might be too old to effectively manage this trial. The prospect that Saba Eetho might soon be promoted excited her. 

Takkai raised his hand again. "We have heard enough. We are done for the day. We shall render our verdict on the two boys in the morning. Zeke Bauer is a town elder now, and we have agreed to forgive his infractions.”

Gretchen stood frowning, and waited politely for the Sabaa and the guards-captain to leave. The hair on her neck tingled. She thought she felt someone staring at her back, but turned to see only an empty room. She shivered, then walked out into the hallway of the Sept. A hand grasped her arm and she jumped and balled a fist. When she saw it was Sitta Naani, she forced herself to relax and bowed her head in embarrassment.

"Guards-woman. This trial is a waste of our time. You know that Saba Takkai personally tested the two boys for magic use. There is no way he would have made a mistake. I have also examined them both. But, something here is not right. You will remain vigilant. You will watch. And you will keep Peder so busy that he has no time to cause mischief. I know the town thinks of them both as heroes, but that will not affect your judgement. If Peder shows any sign of demons, you will kill him. Do you understand?"

Gretchen bowed, grimacing. She had grown quite fond of the boy. She would have to distance herself from him to make sure she stayed objective.

"I understand, Sitta. I will obey."

“And, watch Zeke as well. I know he’s a new town Elder, but that doesn’t mean he has his father’s skill with either money or people. He’s already taken huge losses by overpricing his grains. We want stability, not unease.”

The Sitta put out her hand again and grasped Gretchen’s upper arm. The two women weighed about the same; though all of Gretchen’s weight was in her shoulders and arms, and the Sitta had a large monstrous belly. “You know that Saba Takkai is 59, do you not? Both he and the Saba in Cat’s Cradle were born in the same year and will be Retired this year. The slavers have likely started their efforts here because of that. This entire area will need leadership. Your leadership. Remember, girl, the Torch is growing. We must be strong.”

Gretchen nodded. The entire town knew that the ceremony would occur. It had been three decades since a Saba was Retired, let alone two in neighboring towns. Most people just didn’t live well into their 50s. She would be sad that the old man had to die, but knew it was the most humane option.

Even though Retirement ceremonies happened about once per month, it was still a melancholy time. A time for goodbyes. And hellos. The day after a Retirement, the Sabaa announced which hopeful maiden would be granted permission to have a child. And, of course, the person being retired went on to their next life.

Sitta Naani continued. “Our lord Saba is the oldest man in town, and deserves our respect and support. We need to take care of these problems so he can leave us in peace. Will you obey?”

Gretchen nodded again. “I understand and obey, Sitta.”

Sitta Naani also nodded, turned, and walked away dismissively.

As Gretchen turned to walk out of the Sept, she thought again that someone was standing behind her. When she glanced back, she saw no one. Turning her head, she thought she saw the statue of the Searcher with its thick hooked nose smiling at her.

Meet with Aimee? Personal defense lessons? Peder as guard?