Peder stood at the position of attention in the barracks room he shared with three other guards. For the fourth, and hopefully last, time he watched as one of the Sabaa searched through his room. It was Saba Takkai this time. The Saba was thorough, but even the priest was starting to get annoyed at the whole process. The older man grunted as he bent down on his knees to examine the mattress and floor boards.

Peder wished for his vision right now, if only to see what the Saba was looking at. Ever since the trial, the priests would search his room every week looking for signs of demon worship. Of course, they never found anything. Everything illegal was in his head, and that immediately shut off whenever one of the Sabaa were close enough to detect it.

The last few months had been a trying time. Nayt was still in critical condition in the healers house, and had just recently gotten to the point where he could speak in small sentences. He still couldn’t eat anything more than soup, and Peder had to physically restrain Fiona from going back to the cave to get medicine for him a few times. The Sabaa were watching them very carefully. 

Fiona promised that she wouldn’t go, but he wasn’t so sure. She had been wearing a new pair of boots and clothes the last time he saw her, and he wondered briefly at where the money had come from.

Peder kept Salazaar informed of everything going on. Their brother was currently somewhere way to the south, doing something that he wouldn’t talk about. He had offered to come back to take care of Nayt but that it would take him at least a week to arrive. Peder assured him that he had things under control. He was surprised when Salazaar believed him.

On top of the trial and the disruption that had caused, Gretchen and Guards-captain Willis had decided to double Peder’s work load and training once he had recovered from his own wound. The Captain was a hard man, extremely focused on training and preparing for what he saw as the coming war with the North. The amount of both real and fictitious slaver activity over the past year convinced the Captain that they needed every man and woman in the guard to be in perfect condition.

While standing at attention next to the Captain, Peder reflected that all this extra work was probably his and Nayt’s fault. If they hadn’t convinced the town that two separate slaver attacks had happened, he probably wouldn’t have run 2,832 laps around the barracks in the past months. Yes. He had set a timer to count them. On the plus side, he was starting to feel more power in his chest and the ladies in down were definitely paying him more attention. They also loved to admire the steel sword that he’s bought from Nayt’s mother. Well, his mother. And technically it should have been his sword.

He would always do an additional hour of fighting practice at night using a training app that he downloaded and linked to his tactical system. It simulated many different types of attackers that would jump out from hiding spots and surprise you and try to kill you with an entire assortment of weapons. It was fun, but tiring. He just made level 4 on it and wished that Nayt would finally wake up so he would have someone to brag to. Salazaar was less than interested when Peder sent him messages about his progress.

The Saba struggled to his feet, and Peder bent down to help him stand. “Thank you, boy.”

Peder just nodded then returned to standing at attention. He noticed that the Captain hadn’t moved at all to help the older priest. There was no love lost between those two.

“Captain Willis. Thank you for your continued patience. As you might imagine, we again find no proof of demon worship. I hereby release young Peder from his parole, and turn him over to your charge.”

It felt like a pointless gesture, as Peder had been living in the barracks during the entire length of his ‘parole’ and the Captain had been in complete charge of him the entire time.

The captain obviously felt the same way. “Thank you, your eminence. You are too kind.”

The Saba harumpfed, then turned to peer up at Peder. The older man got so close that an odor of onions and meat overwhelmed Peder’s sense of smell. Peder guessed that the priest was using his magic sight to try one last time to detect any signs of demons, and shifted uncomfortably. 

“My boy, you’ve grown. It seems like every time I see you, you’re an inch taller and wider. I hope all this height hasn’t stretched your brains out too much. And you’ve bought yourself a nice steel sword. I’m sure you have no plans to use it on Master Zeke? Attacking a noble is no way for an innocent boy to live. Remember that.”

With that threat the Saba turned and walked out of Peder’s room and down the hall. When he was walking away, Peder’s magical vision returned but he concentrated and shut it off. When the outer door slammed shut the Captain relaxed and turned to Peder. It was the first time Peder had ever been alone with the man.

“Peder, I know you have differences with Zeke Bauer, but it ends here. Is this understood? You have a duty to this town, and to your brothers in arms. You will pursue no vengeance. Do you understand?”

Peder’s hand involuntarily went to the cut along his cheek but snapped back down as he regained control. “Yes, Captain!”

“What will you do if you see the Bauer boy walking down the street towards you?”

Peder wanted to say that he would punch the bastard in the gut, but instead said, “Keep the peace, Captain!”

The Captain sighed and nodded. He put out his hand and patted Peder on the shoulder. “At ease, soldier. I know this trial has not been easy on you or your friend. You’ve done well in your training and are on your way to becoming a decent fighter. I need you to increase your efforts to prepare for next Spring. Do you understand?”

“Yes, Captain. What will be happening next Spring, Captain?”

The Captain sighed again. “Before the Saba and I came for this inspection, he shared with me that our town has been chosen for the River Festival. Now, don’t let the word out. Please wait for the Sabaa to tell the town later tonight. We only have six months to prepare for this, and we still need to finish that blasted wall to the North. I will need your help to train up some of the apprentices to assist. Think you can handle that, Peder?”

“Yes, Captain!”

“Now, my boy. There’s something else we should discuss. Your father’s sword.”

“Sir, um, that’s Nayt’s fathers sword. Not mine. My father is the weaver.”

“Peder, don’t lie to me. I was your real father’s second-in-command for years. You’re his height and look just like him. You act like him. And, you carry that sword just like he did.”

Peder paused, glancing out towards the hallway. He could tell by his map that the Sabaa were not near and that the room was in a private mode, but still he worried. “Sir, please don’t tell the Sabaa.”

“I won’t. Provided whatever they think you're involved with stops. I've been around long enough to know that everything the Sabaa say isn't exactly accurate. But, they keep the peace. And that's what I swore to do. To protect the people in this town. Your Father, Seven rest his soul, believed the same thing."

Peder nodded. He hadn't been prepared to talk about this. He usually could talk himself out of anything but was having trouble finding the words today.

“Um, sir?”

“Speak, but be quick about it. I have much to tend to.”

“Why are we still building that wall? Doesn’t everyone know it’s a waste of time?”

“You especially should not voice such concerns. Elder Zeke Bauer has convinced the Sabaa that there are monsters and slavers pillaging his lands at night, and he has half of the town in an uproar. With his father gone, he’s the richest man in town. Whether we like him, or even believe him, is not our concern. We are the shield of this town, and must keep our people safe. Do you understand?”

“Yes, Captain. I won’t let you down.”

Captain Willis nodded then pat him on the shoulder again before turning to leave. Peder gave one last look at the Captain and the beautiful steel sword in the scabbard on his back. It was the twin of the one he now carried. He felt kinship with the Captain, and promised himself that he would keep the peace as well as was possible.

Hopefully this chapter in his life was over. The wound and trial had been intensely draining, both for him, his family, and his friends. Many of the townsfolk took their lead and their income from the Bauer family, and had been convinced that he really was a demon worshiper. Both Nayt and he had been proven innocent. He lived in constant fear that they would find out that the angry farmer was right.