Nayt was still alive, but just barely. She had visited him in the hospital, and he hadn’t woken up in weeks. He was so pale. And Zeke had done this to him.

Fiona hated Zeke Bauer almost as much as she hated Saba Takkai and Sitta Naani. Every night, she would go to sleep repeating their three names in her head. Thinking of ways she could use her newfound wealth and power to get her revenge.

She briefly thought of coming to town with thousands of crowns and just buying their farm and kicking Zeke out as a peasant. Of course, that wouldn’t work because then he would have all the money that she would need to pay him. Maybe she could hire someone to kill him. Maybe, but the Sabaa would definitely find out. Could she find some way to get rid of the Sabaa, too? It was a fruitless exercise, though it did cheer her up.

Would Nayt ever wake up from his injuries? He would know what to do. He was always thinking up plans and together they were a great team. She missed that.

Fiona really needed his help dealing with the spider. She wanted medicine, and it showed her hundreds of different options that would cure everything from stomach aches to decapitation. She had made the mistake of asking what decapitation was, and really wished she hadn’t when he painted her a picture in the air. The medicine to fix that had cost hundreds of credits.

“Tell me again what would be best for fixing Nayt’s stomach wound?”

The spider turned and gestured, showing ten different options of varying prices. The pictures hung in the air, rotating and moving around the cave in front of them. Each had words underneath them that she could barely read, along with costs shown that she could barely pay. There was one option to give someone three stomachs instead of one. She waved through it and it disappeared. She didn’t want to turn Nayt into a cow.

“I just don’t know what to choose. I also need medicine for my mother and father. I want some more of that creme that Nayt used on my father’s leg. I brought the vial so you can see what it was.”

The spider shuffled over and gingerly took the empty container from her hand.

“Ah, yes. This is Bacta. It costs 9 credits per vial.”

“OK, I want two of those and then…”

“Miss Fiona, might I suggest these three options? From what you’ve described, this one should help with your mother’s pox infection. I can make this blue pill of upgrade nannies that will repair any internal body injuries for Master Naytan. And these three red pills as general health and strength improvement nannies.”

“Nannies? What are nannies?”

“Miss Fiona, it is very difficult to explain fully. Do you understand that I am a construction robot? I make things.”

“Yeah…”

“So, I can make smaller construction robots. And they can make smaller construction robots. And so on. Eventually, we can make them small enough that they fit inside of your blood.”

“No, wait. I don’t want to put spiders inside of Nayt!”

“Ah, they won’t be spiders. Think if them as very small doctors that can heal from the inside. And, you already have many nannies inside of you. All people do. These are just… improvements.”

In the end, she had spent 50 of her credits to buy the medicines as well as one hundred wooden crown coins. 

Fiona knew someone would be suspicious if she was suddenly rich, so she decided she would spend the crowns only a little at a time, hoping to avoid notice.

The spider informed her that it would take weeks to gather the ingredients for the medicine and asked whether she would authorize it to make helper agents and a factory. She offered to help find plants and materials so it gave her a list of plants and animal parts that it would need. It needed hundreds of ingredients.

After a few weeks of fetching plants she had gathered everything the spider had sent her for. During this time, the trial between Zeke and Peder was all everyone talked about. It gave her an excuse to go out hunting and escape the notice of the Sabaa, who were holding demon worshiper patrols about the area. No one expected a little girl of being involved, though they always warned her to be wary of slavers.

Her 15th birthday was drawing near and Fiona was more and more anxious about facing her Testing. It was barely September and she had two months until the big day. She had never really heard from Nayt or Peder how to get through the Testing and was hoping that her experiences with the spider demon would go unnoticed by the Sabaa.

She’d been back to the cave twice, and discovered what the spider had meant by helpers and a factory.

The first time back, she’d almost screamed in fright when two small metal spiders greeted her at the doorway of the cave. They spoke just like the larger spider, which she’d taken to calling Daddy Longlegs or just Daddy. The two baby spiders were only about a foot high, but each had different items for claws. The claws looked like they would be perfect for carrying small items or picking berries or cutting down small plants.

She’d walked down the cave to the storage pool area and was astounded when half of the massive room had been converted into some crazy metal contraption. The spiders had ripped up half of the pool and used the metal and materials to build a lot of boxes that hummed and vibrated and flashed weird lights. Some areas smelled very bad, and others were fully encased in glass, with many small spiders working within.

She noticed another thing. All of the floating barrels were gone.

She saw Daddy walking towards her. “Where are all of the barrels of food that Farmer Bauer had put here?”

“Gone.”

She rolled her eyes. The robot demon could be so literal at times. “Gone where?”

“The man you call Farmer Bauer came and removed them all weeks ago.”

“What? Why didn’t you tell me this?”

“You never asked. He loaded them all on a ship which promised to sell them and send the profits to him.”

“But he’s been Retired. He won’t get them, will he?”

“All money of any kinds owned by someone Retired is given to the Sabaa. For 1 credit, I can sell you a financial accounting of all of his earnings.”

“No thanks.” The spider was a master at getting every credit it could from her. Somehow, she had less than twenty credits left in her account after all of the medicine and exchange fees and extra charges. Her fortune was rapidly diminishing, and she hadn’t bought anything for herself yet other than a few crowns. Her riches were dwindling.

“When will the medicines be ready? Don’t you have everything you need?”

“I have the pills of strength you purchased. Remember they are to be taken with large amounts of water and meat, but only work once per person. You had purchased 2 pills, but we had material to make a few more. Would you like to purchase the additional 3 for a massive discount of only 8 credits? It is an amazing deal.”

“I’ll give you 4 credits for them.”

“Miss Fiona, I can go no lower than 6 and a half.”

She sighed, “Make it 6 and it’s a deal.” So much for saving money.

Daddy handed her a sealed glass vial with all 5 pills in it. It must have been sure that she would buy them since they were all already in the vial. She grimaced. She always felt tricked after dealing with the spider. It also handed over the one blue pill for Nayt's internal injuries.

“We should have the bacta cream and the pox medicine ready in about a month. It takes time and you know that we are restricted from venturing more than 1 meter from this cave. If you give us permission to go farther, then we can gather materials faster.”

“I don’t want the Sabaa to detect you. What more do you need, I can get them.”

“Miss Fiona, that would be most kind. There are four hundred and twelve components still required. They are…”

“Wait. That’s too many. What about everything I already brought for you?”

“That was mostly used to produce the chemicals and reagents to create the medicine. There is quite a lot of work still to be done.”

“OK, go ahead. You have my permission to have up to three of your baby spiders leave this cave. But only until the medicine is ready… or two weeks, whichever is sooner. And, you yourself can’t go out.”

The lights on Daddy’s head flashed red, then back to green. Did it just get angry? She wanted it to know that she could bargain as well. Peder would be very upset if he found out she letting them out of the cave, especially as she had promised never to return without him.

“Miss Fiona is most kind. That should allow us to fulfill our sale in two weeks. Of course, if you can bring Master Naytan or other patients to us, then we can examine his wounds and have a higher chance of providing him the correct medical care. Unless we do that, we cannot guarantee that the medicines being produced will be effective. Shall we plan to see you and him then?”

Fiona turned to leave. Nayt couldn’t even walk. She doubted she could sneak him out, especially with the Sabaa watching him like hawks. “I’ll try. But I’ll be back in two weeks with or without him. And you better be done by then.”

The spider nodded and raised a metal hand. A series of visions popped up around the cave. Each were of a different bow. Some were metal, some had contraptions on the side that shined red points of light on their targets. They were beautiful, and made the current bow she wore over her shoulder look cheap and antiquated. Each of them were labelled with a cost in credits more than she could afford.

"I know you're trying to get me to spend all of my money, but you know I don't have that much left."

The robot smiled. "Of course, Miss Fiona. I merely wanted to remind you that you had expressed interest in these previously."

She nodded, then walked to a black hard oak bow that looked sleek and powerful. An animation played showing how it would unfold and extra strings would extend for more powerful shots. It also had two built-in arrows that would extend from inside the stock, so that it could shoot immediately if she didn't have time to load. It was perfect for hunting deer and having a quick shot, but would be disguised as a simple wood bow to escape the notice of the Sabaa. And it cost 15 credits more than she had.

She sighed, waving her hands through the illusion to make it disappear.

The spider coughed delicately. It was standing right behind her. She hadn't heard it sneak up behind her.

"Of course, if you need extra funds to purchase an item, I'm sure we can make an arrangement. For example, we are willing to pay 5 credits for someone to take a package to the Old tower outside of your town."

It held out a small black rectangle to her, enticingly.

She thought for a long while. She could really use such a bow. It would help provide food for her family, but also be perfect if she got in another bugbear situation. She extended her hand, then paused, grimacing. She just needed to make sure Peder didn't find out. He would be furious if she both broke her promise to come here and then also wound up doing work for the spider.

The spider waited patiently. She took the package. "Thank you so much, Miss Fiona. Please place it on the outside of the tower on a place facing towards town. There is a missing brick that you can insert this into where it will be unnoticed. Your bow should also be ready in two weeks if we may have permission to add some more materials to our factories down below. It is very different then building chemicals, and will require different tools."

She nodded. "Ok. Just be ready with my stuff when I come back."

The robot bowed on its metal insect legs and humbly said, “We will be.”