Peder dodged a sword that was swinging at his head then jumped over a spear thrust from the side. He had his magic vision up, and his tactical app helped him see from all directions. If he couldn’t risk going to the cave to buy weapons, he had to content himself to download a few of the upgrades from the catalog.

It made group combat almost too easy. Even without the extra magic, he would have easily been able to beat these plebes. Plebe was a name he found when searching on how to train warriors and was what he internally called the new apprentice cadets. He was careful never to say the name out loud, as the Sabaa might wonder where he had learned it.

They were a sorry bunch. When he had been apprenticing, he was one of three cadets that were training to be town guards. Now with the slaver and demon threats, the Captain had convinced Zeke Bauer and the Sabaa that he needed twenty extra recruits. 

Many of them were pulled from other apprenticeships, or from older kids that hadn’t been chosen to be a Journeyman at one of the professions in town. That just meant he was getting the unhappy and unskilled kids from town. Two of the boys were even older than Peder, which made ordering them around a real pain. Vince was the worst, a big brute that was deceptively smart and currently swinging a massive sword at Peder’s head. 

Vince was good friends with Zeke Bauer and none of the boys were happy when he had been assigned to work for Peder. Vince took every chance he could to challenge Peder’s authority.

Peder wasn’t the only one in charge of training, of course. Gretchen and most of the other guards worked with the Plebes now as well. The Captain assigned Peder as being responsible for Beast Barracks - four rooms at the back of the barracks that before had only been used for storage.

Peder ducked another wobbly stab from a spear. He probably should pay attention to the Beasts or he might actually get hurt. He suddenly stepped forward, kicking with his foot and knocking Caralton into Sharif, causing both of their spears to fall amongst a tangle of limbs. He knew that Vince was behind him and about to swing his large wooden sword with massive arms, so Peder just stepped forward and let the slash miss him, then stepped backward to knock the bigger boy off balance into a puddle of mud. 

Peder had used his vision, which was cheating a little. He didn’t care when fighting this giant.

The training yard went silent, then erupted in laughter. Peder stooped and helped the three up. Vince ignored his arm, and got up on his own. He stood inches taller then Peder, which was saying a lot. The older boy was huge.

“OK, Beasts. Time to run. 10 laps around the Barracks. Next team, partner up for pushups!”

Peder formed half of the Beasts in line and they took off for a jog. Vince grumbled the loudest, unhappy at being forced to run. Peder would have to watch that one.

The rest of the day passed quickly, full of pushups and archery practice and runs and spear training. He ran with every other group, and did pushups in between. He found it made telling the other kids much easier to do something if he did it along with them. And when they didn’t see him complaining, they whined less. 

Of course, they still whined a lot. Peder reckoned that every soldier did. He sure had complained to Gretchen a lot when she was doing his training, which he now felt a little embarrassed about.

It had only been a few months but so much had changed. Gretchen still gave evening training sessions to all of the Journeymen, so he could expect to get pummeled by her just as hard as he pummeled the Beasts. In addition, he had to frequently walk extra guard shifts along the East and West side of town. For some reason, Gretchen didn’t want him patrolling the lands along the Bauer farm on the North side of town.

He had indeed seen that idiot Zeke who had shot them, though he refrained from pummeling the new ‘Town Elder’. He knew that the Captain would find out if anything happened, and he could also see that Saba Takkai was watching over them using his vision.

Peder had found out that the Sabaa could zoom around the world and look at things even when their bodies were elsewhere, and with a little practice he found that he could as well. He realized that he was also able to hide when he did so. His spirit was somehow invisible to theirs. They either chose not to or couldn’t do the same thing. He asked Salazaar about it, and his brother only responded with the word “Royal” which he took to mean it was their additional royal powers that gave him that ability.

Peder needed to leave soon to grab dinner and meet Jayna and visit Nayt. He stopped by two of the younger Beasts. The two girls were barely thirteen, and seemed tiny within the clay helmets they were wearing. Both were apprentice weavers that used to work for his father, and both were having a really hard time with the training.

They were talking excitedly as he walked up, then both shushed each other as he came within hearing range. He could have used his magic to hear anything they said, but chose not to. Their names were Jewels and Nala and they both had obvious crushes on Peder. They tried not to stare at the long cut along his cheek. It hadn't healed well and left a long scar.

“Hey Lady Beasts. How are you doing?”

“Um. Peder, sir, we are, um, doing pushups?”

“Oh. It didn’t look like it.”

They sighed dramatically and Peder fought not to laugh. They bent down to their knees, and starting straining to do a single pushup in the dirt. Both wrinkled their noses, and were grunting and groaning as though they had finished thirty.

He let them keep at it, and finally called them to their feet when they both completed five sloppy pushups. If they had just focused, they would have finished in half of the time.

“Beast Jewels, Beast Nala. Those were well done. I think you’re showing a lot of improvement. I know my father was very upset to lose your help in the Weavery. I’m sure he’ll be very proud to see you as big strong guardwomen during the Spring Festival, though!”

They both beamed at the praise, and as he left he heard them down practicing their pushups and trying to get to ten. It might take them a while, he thought.

He ran to his room, poured a bucket of water over his head in the cistern, and changed into his patrol uniform. He jogged and got to Jayna’s bakery right as she was finishing the day. He had learned that she would become cross very quickly if he was late. 

After the trial, Jayna had spend every day in the healer’s cabin with Nayt and Peder. She had very little work to do because Nayt’s amazing blender had cut her work load in half. While Nayt slept, she and Peder had become good friends and talked for hours. She started spending most evenings talking with him until he was discharged and had to go through the trial.

Jayna soon found herself just as busy as everyone else in town when the Sabaa announced that they were doubling the towns-guard and building a stone wall to the North. Building a mile-long rock wall took a great deal of people. Almost every man in town helped out, and that extra labor meant extra food. In addition, the 20 Beasts that were added to the guard ate anything put in front of them without fail.

Also, a group of traveling tinkers had come into town and set up their dozen colored wagons to the east of town. He knew Nayt liked Tinkers, but most of the other guards didn’t. They called them Elves and always followed them with a watchful eye. Rumor was that they stole children, but Peder never saw any crime reports filed by Sabaa to indicate that was true.

The Elves were buying up food at an impressive rate, and selling many other knick-knacks and iron treasures that they had traded for in the North. The guard always kept a few troops nearby to make sure the traveling merchants stayed out of trouble.

The bakery had doubled their order of bread and pies and milk, and were making a ton of money from Jayna’s increased efficiency. They had asked the Weavery for more stirring devices, which Master Peyton had reproduced and sold at a great profit.

Yesterday, the Sabaa had announced that the next Spring River Festival would be held in Weaver's Launch, which kicked off an additional frenzy of activity. The festival would bring thousands from nearby Cents and Pents, as well as from towns along the other rivers. The bakery was being asked to stockpile grains and sugar and flour even more so than required by the hard winter. The Elves to the East were extremely excited at the news, and had already begun bargaining for prime spots to set up their sales tents for next spring.

Jayna looked up and saw Peder at the door. She wiped her hands, and ran to fling her arms around his neck. He gave her a deep smile. He really wanted to kiss her, but held himself back. He was sure she was interested in him as well but also held back through respect for her boyfriend Nayt.

They walked over to the healers, hand in hand.