Nayt gasped, and groggily strained to sit up. His entire stomach ached and he was already short of breath. He felt incredibly good, if compared to the last few days of constant pain. Compared to the last few years of good health, he felt terrible.

Fiona was standing by his bed when he awoke, with Saba Eetho sitting across from her. He had a Saba by his side every moment since he regained consciousness. Being cut off from the data network was worse than any of the physical pain. He yearned to know what was going on; to look at his map, or to pull up the medical app and see what had happened to his stomach. He realized now that the town healer was doing little more than guessing in her medical recommendations. Nayt was growing testy and angry, and wanted nothing more than to be left alone.

He had a fortune in credits to spend and was sitting here completely helpless and likely dying of infection.

Fiona was talking to him in short sentences. He could tell that she wanted to tell him much more, but her eyes kept darting to where Eetho sat. He tried to shake his head at her, but even that movement hurt.

“So, Peder’s dad is real excited for you to come back to work. He really needs good makers to help get ready for the Festival. He made me promise to make you come back.”

“Thanks, Fi. I really want to. Just hurts now.”

“I know. Nayt, we miss you so much. Here, My dad and I made you some special tea.”

“Yuck. I hate tea.”

Her face got hard and she stared at him. He almost felt that daggers would shoot out of her eyes and stab him. “You’ll like this. It’s like the type you made for him. Drink it.”

Nayt lift his right hand to reach for it. It hurt. A lot. He finally got his hand around the clay mug and with Fiona’s help, brought it to his mouth. He saw a flash of blue in her hand, and drank down something hard that caused him to choke.

Sabaa Eetho had been staring at the wall, but turned now to Nayt.

“Here, Nayt, let me help.” He patted Nayt’s back and helped him calm the coughing spasm that had overcome him. Nayt hurt everywhere. Even with the help, he just wished the priest would leave his side so he could finally get his data connection back.

“Thanks.” He said, dryly.

Fiona just nodded. She kept darting glances at Saba Eetho. Nayt reached out and patted her hand. Eetho was by far the nicest of the Sabaa. Why was she acting so scared?

The door opened, and Peder and Jayna walked in. Jayna looked excited that Nayt was awake then saw his hand was on top of Fiona’s. The daggers from her eyes were even sharper that Fiona’s had been and Nayt painfully moved his hand back to his side.

Saba Eetho glanced up and saw the two newcomers.

“Well, this is going to be very crowded. Now that you’re off of parole, I’m sure it’s fine for you two to be in the same room together. I’ll go for a walk, and come back when your visitors have gone. Blessings from the Seven on you all.”

Nayt’s hopes soared. Data access! Finally, he would have some alone time to talk with Fiona and Peder and find out what had happened. If only Jayna wasn’t here. Sure enough, as soon as Saba Eetho stepped away, his data vision popped back up. It was glorious and wonderful. The best feeling that he had ever felt. He smiled at all of his displays and app screens, and blinked when he saw that he had hundreds of messages waiting for him.

An alert was also showing with a red outline of his body. The medical app that he had installed message him to alert that his health was bad. Not a big surprise. He glanced at it, and it had other important messages. Recommending that he cut down on something called carbs and cholesterol and drink more water. And it had a full set of food recommendations for him, with a list of ‘do not eat’ things like cake, cookies, sweat meats, potatoes, and gravy. He sighed. One more thing to worry about.

Jayna was saying something about being so happy he was awake and how many times she had come to check on him. He barely listened while skimming his messages. Some were from his brother Salazaar demanding to know what had happened, and many were from their rebel group asking if he was OK as he hadn’t posted lately. Many others were from Peder, which he didn’t have time to read right then.

Jayna said something about the wooden blenders and that brought Nayt’s attention back to the room. “What?”

Peder stepped up, “She said that everyone loves your blenders. My dad named them that after a design he found in one of his books. He’s sold 5 more and is keeping some of the profits for you as the original inventor. Some of the other weavers are making bigger ones to work with chopping up other things like vegetables and corn.”

Nayt smiled, “Oh. Cool.” He started coughing, and felt a little dizzy. His stomach was itching fiercely.

Nayt saw that Peder had a familiar sword sticking out from his shoulder scabbard. “Hey, is that my dad’s sword?”

Peder sent him a text message that said, You mean my dad’s sword. Hope it’s OK, but verbally said “Yeah. Your mom really needed the money, and to cover your expenses with the healer, I bought it from her. 100 crowns. Used up all of my savings.”

Nayt smiled, and waved groggily. Peder was getting much better at sending the subvocal messages. “No problem, man. You deserve it. Dad would be proud.”

Fiona looked at the door, then said. “Well, Eetho will probably be back soon so I should leave you with your girlfriend.” She looked pointedly at Jayna, who blushed. Nayt wasn’t quite sure why.

Fiona held out a tube with little red candies in them. “Here, I also got you a candied roe. You’ll like them, trust me. They’re good luck and will make you feel much stronger.”

Nayt was getting really bleary, but reached out to take one. He popped it in his mouth, wondering that his arm no longer hurt to move. In fact, nothing hurt right now. It all felt tingly and warm.

Peder also reached out and grabbed one before Fiona could move her arm away. She was about to protest, but just shrugged instead and let him have one.

Even though Fiona hadn’t offered her one, Jayna acidly said, “No thanks. I don’t eat fish eggs. And it’s not lady-like for girls to want to be strong.”

Fiona rolled her eyes, then ate the last one herself. Nayt drifted off to sleep, but his enhanced hearing heard her mutter something that sounded like “I have no use for being lady-like.”