Peder jumped as he got a message from Nayt asking where he was. Jayna opened her eyes and asked what was the matter. His cheeks turned red, then said he needed to get back for evening exercises.

She huffed, and crossed her arms. Peder thought for the hundredth time how beautiful she was, and how stupid Nayt was for ignoring her. Her golden hair fell to her shoulders and down past to even better parts of her.

She sighed, then pulled him in for one last kiss. “I never see you anymore. You’re always working or with Nayt. When do we get to spend time together?”

He stood, then crouched down to kiss her again. They were in the hidden back room of the Old Tower, where they had met every evening for the last week. He always could find at least fifteen minutes to sneak out.

“Sorry, beautiful. You know they need me. After the Festival, we’ll have plenty of free time together. Just a few more months.”

He reached into his pack, and pulled out a red rose from a bush growing in an Erdgrove off to the east of town. “Here. Your favorite.”

She squealed, then jumped up for another hug and kiss. She kissed the long scar on his cheek, which still tickled. “I knew you loved me.”

He kissed her back deeply, then walked out of the tower jogging for the barracks. They usually only had a quarter of an hour each night to meet, with his training duties and her extra work.

As he ran, he sent Nayt a message saying that he had got held up and was at the Barracks. He saw on his map that Nayt was just walking down the road as he entered from the other side of the training yard, so he ran up and shook hands with his friend.

“Spawn, Nayt! You’re looking great.”

“Yeah, I feel wonderful. I was in so much pain last week, but now I feel like I could go for a run.”

Peder replied, “Better not. The healer would kill you.”

“I’m sure the run would kill me.” The Sabaa are in my house searching for things again. I was hoping that was over.

Peder looked at his friend and nodded. He knew the feeling. 

He took a closer look at Nayt who was still pale but much improved. He had probably lost 20 pounds while on bed rest, and actually looked healthier than before he was shot. His arms looked more muscular than Peder remembered. All that time in the Weavery banging and cutting must be helping.

It was good that Nayt was up and walking, but Peder guiltily thought that it would just make it easier for Nayt to discover him and Jayna.

“What about you, training going well?”

Nayt looked around at the crowded yard. A lot of the younger kids that Peder called Beasts were staring at the two of them. Peder and Nayt had just been on trial for demon worship, apparently, so were still treated with fear and a bit of wonder. 

Peder flexed, then dropped and did 60 quick pushups in a minute. He kept messaging Nayt while he was showing off his exercises. By the Three, I feel great. Remember that fighting app I told you about? I just got passed level 6 last night!

Nayt shook his head. Peder knew Nayt thought most of the online games were a waste of time. Though, he noticed that Nayt’s scores in many of them had been steadily climbing over the last week while he was confined to bedrest. Peder had been buying and sending him games constantly in the hope that it would keep him distracted from what he and Jayna were off doing.

A bell rang in the distance, and Peder groaned. “Guess I missed dinner. I sure am hungry lately. I’ve got to run to train with Gretchen. What are you up to?”

Nayt sighed, Working late at the Weavery. Your dad got permission from the Sabaa to make four more blenders. He wants them by tomorrow. In addition to twenty additional shields for your new guards. Not to mention helping with wagon wheels and a whole swath of barrels for the winter stores.

Peder sent back, You reading all these messages from the group? They’re getting active lately.

Nayt shrugged, I just haven’t kept up. Too many voices in my head.

Peder just nodded as Gretchen entered the yard. Oh, by the evil Four. She was carrying kendo sticks. He hated the evil bamboo sticks. They were made for pain, and hurt like the dickens when you got smacked on your fingers. They were a weapon of skill instead of strength, and Gretchen was skilled at punishing him with blinding swings. It was going to be a long night.

Nayt said “I was going to head over to see the tinkers.” Then he sent Maybe one of them knows Tomas or Veronyca; the ones I met up North.

Peder kept glancing at Gretchen, who was rounding up the guards for training time. He just nodded at Nayt.

"Come on Peder, want to go? I hear they might have some iron swords for sale."

Peder sighed then shook his head. "Maybe I'll go see them tomorrow or next week. I’m super busy with all these new Beasts."

Nayt finally got tired and left for the Tinkers. Peder let out a deep sigh. He had been unconsciously holding his breath ever since Nayt arrived. It’s great that he’s healing nicely, but he wished his friend would have been on bed rest longer. He really needed to tell Nayt about Jayna… Just when was the right time?

Mention Fiona missing, Peder working in Sept more to assist Sabaa in cleaning/repairs/protection for Aimee