The Searcher was a patient man. Had to be in this line of work. Though his patience was wearing thin. He had been up for over a day, and he just wanted to get back to sleep. But duty called. He hated being on watch, hated all the extra time it added to this prison sentence.

He turned to regard the young Saba Eetho, who was quite anxiously reporting the facts of the little conspiracy he had uncovered in the Podunk village of Weaver's Launch.

The Searcher sighed, then waved Eetho to get to the point.

“And that, my lord, is why I think we should take leniency on Fiona. She is just 14, after all.”

“And you, Saba Eetho. How old are you?”

The young man gulped then sputtered “Twenty three, sir.”

“And you haven’t been through full Saba training yet, am I correct?”

The boy couldn’t decide whether to call him lord or sir. He rolled his eyes. These young Saba watched too many old movies.

“No sir, I’m scheduled to for next Spring.”

The Searcher knew all of this of course. He had sat through much of that boring trial last month in the same town. The trial had been painful to sit through, but a good way to get a feel for the town of Weaver's Launch. He now knew the four Sabaa who were stationed there as well as all the peasants who were involved. The only major mistake so far had been letting that nobleman Bauer go into Retirement without securing a full confession first. Saba Takkai was getting sloppy in his old age. Hopefully they would still be able to find something out from the ‘corpse’.

The only useful bit recovered from his confession was that Bauer seemed to be augmenting his income with forbidden technology and some local kids might have caught him. Whether these local kids had been using the robot or not was the crux of the issue. The man had seemed convinced that it was the boy named Peder involved, but later admitted he had thought it might be a young girl. Next to useless information and only a Priority 3 crime. The local Saba had their trial and couldn’t discover any proof that it was Peder or Nayt involved. More likely that the farmer was framing them to cover up his illicit gains. The Searcher added a to-do item to fine the Bauers half of their income for the year.

“Sir, I’m sorry if I have failed you. Shall I have Saba Takkai report instead of me?”

The young lad had mistaken his pause for anger. He sighed again. Time to build some leadership, if only so they would stop bothering him with these trivial problems.

“No, Eetho, you are doing fine. Your concern for your congregation is touching. You will be a fine full Saba. Thank you for bringing this to my attention.”

“You’re... You’re welcome sir. Just when I saw her location as unknown, I thought you should know. Saba Takkai said I should call your office and make a report.”

The Searcher stood from his stone chair. Even in this remote connection, he knew he must present an impressive figure. “What did you say? Unknown?”

Saba Eetho “Um, yes, sir.”

“That shouldn’t be the case. Not unless they have a network blocker or are in a classified facility?”

“Sir?”

The Searcher sighed, pacing in front of his chair. He reached into Saba Eetho’s data and pulled up the records from his personal storage, hanging her location track in the air. “You call it an Old Building. She isn’t below the Sept at all? Or don’t you have an… Old Tower to the west of your town? Did you check there?”

“Yes, lord. We did check there. When children are in the old tower, it still reports their position.”

“That’s right, it’s within town boundaries. I guess it would. Well, have one of the Sabaa with clearance send the Servitors to check that she didn’t sneak underneath the Sept. If she did, just Retire her. If she didn’t, then we have a bigger problem.”

Eetho bowed, “Thank you my lord. I shall inform Saba Takkai.”

“Wait. Wasn’t this Fiona mentioned at the Trial?”

“My lord, you have a good memory. That was a month ago. Yes, Fiona was in the woods with Peder when the Slaver woman tricked him into following her. But he wound up going to Cat’s Cradle instead.”

The Searcher pulled up a map of the area, then cycled through intelligence reports of the region. He overlaid millions of entries onto the map, everything that their systems had observed over the last century. There was a large red spot to the North, where the Iron North had had their brief but bloody war of secession decades ago. There was also a blinking red diamond between those Iron lands and the Cent of Cat’s Cradle.

The Searcher pointed at the blinking dot. “Here. Could she have gotten here on that day? Or be working with people from the North?”

Eetho peered at the map. “The Kingdom of Thorn, sir? I’ve never heard of it. It’s 45 miles away!”

“Couldn’t she drive there and back in an hour?”

Eetho looked shocked. “Drive? Like in a wagon? Sir, we only have horses in town. Not any coaches like in the Capital. And through those woods, it would take at least a day to get there.”

Of, that was right. They were at a point of technology where people didn’t even have cars or motorized transport anymore. It was hard to keep track of.

Eetho continued talking. “Her history shows she’s never been gone from town for that long. If I may ask, sir, what is Thorn?”

The Searcher answered, distracted. “It is a rebel village we thought we had destroyed. There could be up to three fugitives that might have escaped that area. Most likely, they are northerners. If the girl comes back, detain her and question her to see if she has been working with the North. See if she knows anything of escaped royals. Someone like would have the authority to turn on a network blocker, which might be how she is hiding. You have had no new arrivals in town over the past few months?”

“No sir, only the Elves… er, I mean the Tinkers. They showed up last week, lord.”

The Searcher gestured shifted his and Eetho’s attention over to the Elf tents to the East. He noticed that Eetho reached out and took hold of something, steadying himself. The boy was not very skilled in the use of the data systems, apparently. Each generation of Saba regressed further and further. It was sad, but necessary for them to maintain the ruse.

As they virtually walked through the Efl tents, screens of information highlighted over each of the traveling folk. They were descendants of citizens who had chosen to become nomads long ago, and elected to forgo the Retirement process. They had a contract in place with the Authority that they would be allowed remedial genetic engineering and access to all lands in exchange for a massive payment made by their ancestors. Annoying, but contracts must be honored. He just felt their pointy ears and skin tattoos looked silly. An affectation of a long ago age. They were even given optional Retirement if they so choose, but few volunteered for it.

The timing of their arrival seemed suspicious at first, but all reports suggested it was likely was a coincidence. Their route had been carefully overseen by other investigating Sabaa over the last year, and their plans to arrive in Weaver's Launch were well known months ahead of time. They had no other anomalies, only a large amount of metal which was explained by their copious trading with Pents and Cents throughout the area. Still, he made a to-do item to do a detailed scan and visit them in person when he arrived.

The Tinkers were a continuous thorn. Could they have brought a network blocker into town, even accidentally? Many of them covered their faces, blocking them from facial recognition scans. Though all registered as having no network links and showed the telltale signs of their elven heritage. None of the escaped royals could be hiding among their midsts, could they?  They were basically ghosts to his analysis programs, which he very much did not approve of. But a contract must be honored.

“Run a guard through here and double check that each of them have real elf ears. Some of them hide their faces. If anyone is wrapped up covering their face, pull them out so that they can be scanned in public.”

“Sir, do you think some of them might be the rebels that you are looking for?”

“Eetho, we really need to get you to school soon. Elves do not have the data access technology that we do and so could not be eligible for royal status on a Colonial planet.” He sighed again, he was tired, and saying too much that this young man wouldn’t understand.

“I’m sorry lord, I guess I have much to learn.”

“You will do well, young Saba. Now, go about your duties. Find this Fiona, before she causes more trouble. And beware of the northerners, if they are in league with these Royals, then they might have more tricks planned for your town. You have my leave.”

The young priest bowed. “Yes lord. I will go inform Saba Takkai of your commands now.”