Nayt awoke and sweated through his morning exercises. It had been a week, but he was already up to 60 pushups. His stomach wound was improving to the point he could also do a dozen situps before his medical app yelled at him. He felt refreshed and healthy and smiled when he saw that his pants were loose. He was losing more weight. He hoped that Elisa would notice.

When his network access turned on, his head felt funny, like he had too much to eat but mentally instead of physically. Nayt checked his mail and saw that he an inbox full of unread messages from Peder, from his brother, from the rebel group. Ever since awakening from his coma, he had been feeling things related to the virtual world instead of just seeing them. Like when he had felt that the man in black was following him. It was hard to really put his finger on the difference, but something inside him had changed. Something he didn’t yet understand.

Ugh. Over 20 messages waiting from Peder. Maybe Peder had finally confessed to sneaking off with Jayna. Not that Nayt cared, he was tired of the yellow-haired girl. He was just hurt that his friend kept their betrayal hidden from him. Did Peder honestly think Nayt couldn't track his location? He left the messages unread for now. Instead, he turned on one of Tomas and Veronyca’s audio recording files. In it, Tomas was talking about forest creatures and wondering why the animals that ate Erdgrove trees such a bears and rabbits were all edible but those that ate Faegrove trees weren’t something that humans or elves could eat. A mystery.

Nayt ran through town down to the Weavery while listening to the recording in the background. He was distracted keeping his eyes open for the man in the black cape. Nayt had seen him two more times over the last week following people and listening to conversations, especially in people leaving town. Nayt realized by watching the administration layer that he could tell where any Sabaa was in the data view, along with what they were looking at. There was so much else shown; information about every person and what they did and how much they owed. Scary.

Even though he was distracted, Nayt noticed that something funny was going on in town. There were almost no people. It was early, and usually there were dozens of people on the streets wither walking or talking. Now, all the doors seemed closed and no one was about. Nayt checked his calendar. Nope, not a holiday or weekend. He shrugged.

Nayt opened the door to the Weavery, and stopped in the doorway to stare. The place was completely empty. Where was everyone? Usually Missus Peyton was here at least. Oh well, no matter.

Nayt walked to the back of the room and pulled his latest invention out of the boilers. Master Peyton had wanted something valuable to sell at the upcoming Spring festival, something that they could make hundreds of and sell for a profit to the tourists from other Pents and Cents.

Thinking of Elisa had given him the inspiration to make something beautiful. He wanted created wooden roses made out of the redwood of a Faegrove tree. He was experimenting with different designs now and had carved four different roses of different sizes and complexities. He wanted the rose to be as light as possible but also to have pedals that the wearer could squeeze open when they pushed a hidden catch.

The problem was getting the wood cut and carved when it was still fresh and hadn’t solidified. He thought he had come up with a good approach in cutting the flowers when they were fresh, then polishing them after they solidified in the overnight boiler.

Nayt examined the results. Two of the flowers had cracked where he had cut the wood petals too small. The one that he had left in for 16 hours had darkened too much that you couldn’t see detail. The one that was in for 8 hours looked perfect, bright red and still with good detail. He pressed the latch and it opened. Looks like he had his approach down. He could train the other weavers in making cutting the pieces and they would start a larger batch to perfect the process. He should be able to get the costs down to less than a crown to make each, then sell them for 2 crowns each. He was thinking that they could put a pfennig in the holder for each rose as a surprise, which would encourage more spending during the festival. Win win for everyone.

He placed the flower on Master Peytons desk so that his father could see the progress. The Master should be happy, and they might make a few hundred crowns in profit. Too bad he didn’t have a second rose. He could take it to Elisa as a present.

Nayt left the Weavery and walked wast towards the Tinker camp. The streets were still strangely deserted, though he thought he heard noises from up north towards the center of town. He ignored it.

Nayt had been to see the tinkers every day to meet with Tomas and Veronyca. He loved the Tinker camp, and had met all of the dozen tinkers and heard their colorful stories. They were beginning to trust him and had hinted yesterday that they had something important to ask him. He turned off the audio recording that Tomas had given him.

Nadine stood when he entered their camp and handed him a plate of tomatoes and cheese that she’d saved him from breakfast. He blushed and everyone around the campfire laughed. She had a way of standing with her arms behind her back and leaning forward that made him sweat with nervous energy. He really should have brought the wooden flower for her.

“Thank you for coming today. Tomas asked to see you in his wagon when you arrived and finished eating.”

Nayt gulped, staring at her while trying not to stare. He quickly ate the tomatoes and thanked her for the delicious meal. He tried to pay attention to the other tinkers but kept glancing back to her. She was wearing his favorite red dress again today. He loved that color on her.

Soon, he stepped up into the wagon. When he turned back he saw that all the tinkers had gathered outside and were watching him intently. What was going on?

“Come in, come in. Good to see you, Naytan.”

“Hoi Tomas. Hoi V.” They had decided not to use her name so that it was not accidentally overheard. Better safe then sorry. Nayt verified that their protection layer was still on. He checked the map and saw that all of the Sabaa were up north in the Bauer farm. Even Sitta Aimee. It was good to see her leaving the Sept more and more these days. Peder had mentioned how sad she looked. 

No Sabaa close by, so Nayt sent Tomas his customary morning message. We are safe to talk, neither the Sabaa or Black-cloaked man are nearby.

“Good to hear. We’re so glad you came today.”

Tomas stood and turned to the walls of the wagon. It was a very tall wooden wagon, with a cloth outer shell that was painted of multicolored pieces of cloth. Streamers hung from every surface, and there was a wood panel along both walls. Tomas pulled a rope near the front, and panels in the wall twirled around to show an assortment of items.

Nayt whistled, walking to stare at the panels. He was amazed at how smoothly the panels opened, and looked at the gearing system in detail. It was very similar to the gears Nayt had made for the blender. The gears were small, and appeared to be made of some sort of soft white material unlike wood. They looked to be covered with some sort of sticky substance. 

“Those panels are amazing. You can’t even tell that they are there. There’s no metal in them at all, and they don’t show up on my displays as being forbidden.”

Tomas laughed.

Veronyca said, “Wizard, we wanted to show you what is behind the panels, not the panels themselves. They are made of “plas-tek”, and were made by a man up in the Iron Lands.”

Tomas continued, “But, look at the items, not just the shelves. These are my treasures.”

The shelves had two dozen items, ranging from small rings to music instruments to some sort of big leather bag with sticks in it.

“This, for example, is a bagpipe. It makes a wailing sound, perfect for dirges. And this one is my favorite instrument.”

Tomas took down a curved wooden lute with catgut strings and began playing it. The melody was beautiful and unlike any music Nayt had heard before. He had only heard music from drums or flutes before, so these tones and sounds were new to him. It sounded like the music from old movies.

Tomas moved down the line making tinkling or honking sounds across many of the instruments. He finally stopped on one that had small metal strings running across the front, which he plucked with his fingers to form a twanging melody that Nayt recognized from things he had heard online.

“Those strings are metal!”

“Yes. This is a guitar. It’s very rare. The strings are called wires, and cost a great many crowns each. It is from the Iron lands where metal things are more common. 70 crowns if you are interested.”

Nayt whistled again. It was much more than he had unless he exchanged some of his spider credits in for crowns.

Sensing no sale, Tomas shrugged and put the instrument up and pushed on a wooden board behind it. Another small panel opened, and Tomas pulled out a cloth bag that was lined with loops of fine metal mesh. He removed a ring from the bag and held it up.

“When we found this ring we thought of you immediately. It was on the hand of one of the Authority warriors that attacked a village in the Iron Lands last month. The man had died from an arrow in the throat and I happened to be in the area. The man had already beaten twenty northerners by himself when he was brought down. I think it needs a wizard to work it.”

Nayt raised an eyebrow. The battles between the warriors from the capital and the Iron lands were legendary. Tomas seemed to have a knack for getting himself into difficult places.

Tomas handed Nayt the ring and watched him expectantly. It was made of a heavy black metal and must be worth a fortune. There was a red gem on the front side of it, but nothing on the top where a normal stone would be except for a carved X set in the metal. The X was very intricate and liked to have many smaller wires of white and red metal inside the grooves. The seams where the ring joined with the gem were unlike any he had ever seen, and could not have been made by a normal crafter. Even though Nayt had never worked with metal, he could guess that much.

Nayt pulled up his data vision and studied the ring. He still had the administrator’s view enabled and in that layer the ring was covered with writing. He squinted and words popped out at him. 

The ring was labeled with many unfamiliar words which Nayt noted to look up later. One of them was some sort of number rating that showed Power - 70%.

Nayt reached a finger out and tapped a label titled Diagnostic causing a wall of text and numbers to show in his vision. One of the options was labelled Attune User. Another was labeled Download Control App. Nayt chose the second option and a glowing program appeared. It was the same type that his brother had given him months ago. It had a lock on the front.

Book popped up next to him and spoke so that only he would hear. “Nayt. This device is offering you a program to install a control system. It requires your public key to open. Remember to never use your private key on any program that you do not trust.”

Nayt asked Book under his breath Is it dangerous?

Books shrugged. “I can’t tell for sure. It appears to be safe. It looks like a standard control program to allow a user to interface with a machine. There are protection programs that you can buy in the app catalog that might scan it for attacks. Also, the device will sound an alarm if it is seen outside of a private area.”

Of course. Otherwise it would be too easy.

Nayt pulled up the catalog and found an app named Program Protector, paying 2 credits for it. He grimaced when he saw his balance. He was down to 50 credits, and had been spending quite a lot on apps lately. Nayt had not even been back to the cave, worrying that the Sabaa would find him. He itched to go out looking for Fiona, but knew that she would be safe while hiding from the Sabaa. She was probably in the cave with the spider, spending her credits and living like a queen. 

Nayt installed the scanner and ran it on the program that the ring offered. It took a minute to complete. No dangers reported. Clean. 

Next he would have to figure out how to allow the ring to be taken outside. Not much use of having a ring if you couldn’t wear it in public. Nayt looked up the local alarms that had been set for their town. He had to use his private key again to gain authorization.

Most of these alarms were set hundreds of years ago and covered all kins of activities from mentioning the term “Testing” to bringing in large amounts of metal to carrying items that had a power source. With a little fiddling Nayt found the right alarm that would be sounded from showing the ring, then found that the protections indicated that anyone with Sabaa rank or higher could edit them. His royal rank seemed to work, and he was able to simply delete the alarm. That was easy.

“Well, it looks like the ring can be run by anyone that you call a wizard, but it needs someone to put it on and attune themselves to it. It doesn’t look like it has any magic in it that would be a trap.”

Veronyca clapped, “See, I told you he was the person to bring it to. How much will you pay for it, Nayt?”

Nayt opened his eyes in surprise. “Oh, I don’t know what it does. And I hardly have any money. I’ve only got about 20 crowns saved up.”

Tomas spoke up, “No, we don’t want your money. We’re wondering if you could teach all of us that magic spell like you gave me that lets us talk without using our mouths.”

Nayt smiled. That would be easy. He could just copy what he had already made for Tomas. He remembered his bargaining lessons from Master Peyton, though. Always start by asking too high. “Well, that might be a little harder. I’ll do it for the ring plus the guitar.”

Tomas laughed again and Veronyca clapped. With her melodious voice, she said. “Deal!”

Nate blinked. That was easy. He had a guitar.

Nayt loaded the ‘spell’ he had used months before from his records and pulled up the code. He had learned many things since then and tweaked the code and settings a bit so that it would work on anyone who used the program. He added another feature that would allow people to have group conversations. It took him about thirty minutes of work, but Tomas and Veronyca calmly let him be. He must look funny to them, just sitting and wiggling his fingers periodically.

Nayt finished the spell and handed it to Veronyca. She gasped when she saw the glowing rectangle and reached out to load the program. Nayt still didn’t understand why the tinkers could see through illusions and see some objects from the data world when others couldn’t. After she installed it, her and Tomas amused themselves for a few minutes sending secret messages to each other. Nayt cautioned them both to make sure they didn’t move their mouths when they talked. Veronyca quickly picked up the trick.

Tomas urged Nayt to try on the ring, which he did so. It seemed to tighten around Nay’ts finger, though he found he could pull it off if he tried hard. He loaded up the diagnostic menu again and selected the atunement option. It looked like it wouldn’t work, but when he clicked on the ‘royal’ identity he had in his security settings, the option turned green and was accepted. He had found that trick seemed to fix some things. Nothing seemed to change, but the ring flashed red once and he heard a beep from the ring. The other two turned to stare at him.

A new menu item appeared on his vision, with just one word. Fire.

“This is interesting. Maybe it detects…” Nayt pointed his finger at the clay pot on the other side of the wagon that Veronyca had been cooking in, and triggered the Fire command.

The pot exploded in a burst, sending chunks of clay and onion soup everywhere. A one-inch hole had appeared on the other side of the wagon and sunlight was showing through it, filtering through a dust cloud. His display indicated three quick lines of text. Laser firing. Charging. Ready.

Veronyca clapped in excitement.

His finger was now a weapon. Awesome.