It had been a terrible morning. Worse for Fiona’s parents than for him, but he felt guilty to be a part of the attack all the same. Peder had stood far enough back that when the man in black appeared to order the Sabaa around, he almost had a heart attack. Hd had figured out that Fiona was involved and a source of the fake money. 

Peder had sent video of the Black cloaked man and everything he had said to Nayt along with messages asking for his help and telling him what was going on all morning. No answer.

After the Spider had been found, Saba Eetho accompanied him back to the barracks, where he was told to rouse all of the guard while Eetho explained the situation to the Captain. Everyone was arming themselves, and preparing to go find the dangerous Fiona. He was sending constant messages to Nayt to try to get him to go help her, but still no response. At 4am, he shouldn’t expect his friend to be awake, but he’d had a dim hope.

Eetho again tasked him as an escort back to the Sept, where the young priest went in to grab a backpack of food and some other gear. They then headed North up through town towards Fiona’s house. The entire time, Peder could see that messages were coming in and going out from Saba Eetho. The young priest was obviously unexperienced with using magic messages, and seemed only able to receive messages as visual letters that would show in the public display. Peder could read everything that he received, and the news was not good. 

Sitta Naani led the attack on Fiona’s house, and by the time Peder and Eetho arrived, the guards had dragged away both of her parents. Her father had surprised everyone by striking out at the Sitta with his cane, and she had a large bruise across her fat cheek. He was surprising strong, and had knocked out two other guardsman as well before he had been disabled and tied up. Sitta Naani had become furious, and ordered the entire demon-loving family to be taken to the Sept for Retirement. Fiona’s mother apparently had suffered some sort of seizure, and had either passed out or died in the hut from the shock. Terrible news. Fiona would be devastated when she found out.

Peder glanced to the skies. Only the Torch was available, shining it’s angry red broiling light down upon them. He hated nights like this when only the Torch was showing. It looked bigger than the last time he’d seen it.

Peder waited outside while Eetho and Naani argued inside the empty hut, with her tearing up everything she could find to look for contraband demon objects. Peder got the entire story from one of the other guardsman, who seemed to think that Fiona’s father thought men were attacking his sick wife, and was trying to protect her and his daughter. No magic had been used, and the man kept demanding to know where they had taken his daughter before he’d been subdued. Not good at all.

He waited outside, rubbing his arms to fend off the cold. Something was missing from Fiona’s house. He wasn’t sure what it was, but there was something nagging at him. He realized that he hadn’t heard the pig make noise. Usually, the giant sow would rub against the wooden fence and honk at people walking by. This much attention should have her spinning in excited piggly little circles.

Peder walked around to the other side of the house and gasped. Penelope the pig was lying on her side. Blood caked her neck, and she wasn’t moving. Peder put out a hand to touch her side, and felt her cold flesh. She was dead. Tears welled in his eyes, and he brushed them away to examine the corpse. Three crossbow bolts stuck out from the pig’s side, and one was buried deep in her neck. He recognized those crossbow bolts as the same one that had shot him and Nayt. They must be from Zeke.

Peder looked around, but couldn’t see the bastard. He searched the map and found that Zeke was in his house. He must have come out in the commotion and heard Fiona was involved, and took his revenge. Peder shook his head at the waste of it all. He took pictures of everything, then sent them to Nayt.

The rest of the morning passed in a blur. By 7am, the guard had formed five groups to go out searching for Fiona to the North. The consensus from Saba Takkai was that she had headed off to the Northeast. Peder guessed it was in the direction of the spider’s cave, but didn’t voice any of his suspicions. The good news was that he did maneuver himself onto the team that would be going closest to that direction. The bad news was that one of the Sabaa went with each team, and Sitta Naani was leading theirs. They were accompanied by the two young Beasts, the girls Nala and Jewels, and the giant Beast named Vince. Along with Peder was one older guardsman that Peder had never really worked with named Yang. He had yellowish skin, and the slanted eyes that commonly indicated wisdom.

The massive priestess was in a terrible mood after being stuck in the face, and would scream at any of the guardsmen accompanying her if they didn’t follow her commands fast enough. Of course, she had Peder carry her traveling sack. Peder had tried to delegate this to Vince, who was bigger, but the Beast walked off pretending not to hear him.

Carrying Naani’s bag made things worse, as he lost the use of his magic vision anytime she was close to him. He kept trying to step away from her, but she’d yell at him to stay close in case she needed a drink of water. She drank a huge amount of water and ate many of the snacks in the other side of the pack. The only relief was that the more she drank and ate, the lighter the pack became for Peder.

As the sun rose, Peder was pretty sure he saw Nayt off in the distance, and ranged far enough ahead that he could use his magic again. Peder sent him a final message to try to get him to go in front of them to warn Fiona. Something must have been wrong, as he got no response. He sent a final message detailing his plan, then called his brother Salazaar. Salazaar answered immediately, to Peder’s relief. Peder sent a quick version of what had happened, along with copies of the videos he’d sent Nayt. Salazaar said that he would head back immediately, but it would be a few days before he could get to town, and that Peder should try to stall things until he arrived. Keep the peace, and keep the Sabaa occupied. Peder was about to reply when Sitta Naani came huffing up for a drink of water, getting near enough that his display cut out. Peder sighed, and kept closer to her after that.

They would move off to the east of the stream for a few minutes, then return and go back in the other direction. Sitta Naani directly them with exacting commands, and Peder guessed she’d formed some sort of grid using her data display to make sure that the entire area was searched for footprints or the hiding girl. She shouldn’t have bothered as Fiona was an accomplished hunter, and knew not to leave obvious footprints.

It was an hour later that the trouble started. Peder’s loyalties were being pulled in every direction. He had two of his young Beasts here, and he had to keep them out of danger. He’d always respected the Sabaa, and didn’t want any harm to come to Sitta Naani or the others. Fiona’s brother Leo had been one of his best friends until he failed his Testing, and he felt responsible for some of the trouble involving Fiona. And even though she had a fiery temper, he liked the little rascal girl. As a guardsman, he was charged with keeping the peace. He needed some way to keep everyone safe and also not let his secret powers be discovered. Though, the more he thought of it, the more he realized he’d be fine if Vince got a quick pounding.

They were walking up the familiar stream bed which would take them towards the spider’s cave. Naani moved very slow, so at this pace it would take them two more hours to arrive. She needed to stop to rest every fifteen minutes, but that just delayed the agony of her finding the spot. Peder was stressed and tired, and anxious for what they would discover. With her Sabaa magic, she’d be able to see the cave opening immediately if when got close to it. They were so screwed, and he had only two hours to come up with a plan.

As they walked along the water, Jewels and Nala were chatting and not paying attention to their surroundings. They were chilly in the cool September morning, and hadn’t brought much other than their leather guardsman coats. They each also had a wooden hard-sword and shield, but could barely carry them. Peder hoped they wouldn’t get hurt. He was staying away from the water, as it had a pretty foul smell, as though something had died in it. Previously, there were fish in this stream, but now it was empty. Could it be something from the Spider that was polluting the water?

They were almost to the area where Fiona had originally had her fight with the Bugbear. Peder previously marked it on his map. They had always given the area a wide berth, as they knew there were a family of bugbears that lived in a nest close by.

Peder had an idea. On the ruse of having to go take a leak, he walked into the forest by a bulberry bush. He grabbed a few leaves of that, as well as a clump of pine cones off of the forest floor. While in the trees, he knotted them together and used his flint to set the entire thing on fire. A strong cloying smell hit his nose. He aimed as best as he could using the map, and flung them towards where the bugbears hive was. He wiped sap off his arm and hurried back to rejoin his party.

Sure enough, the bugbears must have been attracted and disturbed by the smell. A snort and angry animal bleat sounded from the woods, and Jewels jumped backwards, raising her shield. It was a good reflex. Unfortunately, she stepped backwards and slipped on a wet river rock, and went tumbling into the stream. 

“Spider!” she screamed, and Nala jumped in to rescue her, which resulted in mass confusion. 

Yang fished both of the girls out while Sitta Naani crouched behind Vince and his shield.

 Peder went in to check the source of the noise, while giving the group time to continue upstream. He had been hoping to have a bugbear charge into the group, which might give them all an excuse to go home. He realized now that he was endangering Jewels and Nala. Stupid of him. The bugbear wound up being a young male, and was easily frightened off with a few claps of his sword on his shield.

Five minutes later, they sat on the bank of the river. Both girls were shivering, wet, and terrified.

“I’m sure I saw another one of those spiders in the river. It tripped me.”

Sitta Naani was towering over her, hands on her ample hips. “Stop blubbering, girl. My magic shows nothing. There was no spider here. You stumbled like a silly fool.”

Jewels had sprained her ankle, and couldn’t walk without assistance. Peder thought they were more afraid of Sitta Naani than they were of a bugbear. Peder was proud that neither of them cried, though he could tell both of the young Beasts wanted to.

Yang approached the Sitta, and bowed in subservience. “Honored Sitta. I regret to inform you that Jewels will be unable to continue. We must either leave her here, or escort her back to town.”

The Sitta screamed at him in rage, berating him for his insolence in telling her what to do. Yang shrugged, and turned back to care for the girls.

Peder had an idea. He knew from his classes with Naani to always ask for permission before speaking directly. “Ma’am? What would you like us to do? Would you like Nala or Yang to take Jewels back while the rest of us look for the demon worshipper?”

The fat priestess considered it for a moment, then looked at him with approval. He put on his most trustworthy smile. Her choices were limited and he had given her the only option that made sense.

“Yang, take Nala and Jewels back to town. Go now. I will let Saba Takkai know you are coming. Leave them at the town healer then come back to us immediately.”

Peder sighed inwardly. In had almost worked out. At least the girls would be back safe. Maybe he could somehow get them to lose Vince in the forest, but he doubted it. He needed another plan. Maybe he could hurry them up so that they arrived in the cave before Yang returned?

Another hour passed and they made better time. He convinced the Sitta that he could range off to one side, while Vince looked in the other side of the forest. They were coming close to the cave, and Peder hadn’t come up with a good alternative. While away from the Sitta, he’d sent a few last messages to Nayt informing him of the situation, but had only received a one word cryptic answer of “OK”. Peder ground his teeth in frustration. OK? OK with what? Damn his hide.

They were almost in view of the cave. The game was almost over. Peder thought briefly of running to the North, trying to make for the iron lands. He’d need to go back for Jayna first. The two might be able to slip off in the confusion and get married and have kids together. It was a nice thought, and Peder sighed. It would be so easy to just run away from everything. But, it would be pretty irresponsible. He’d need to see this through.

He was back at the stream helping Sitta Naani take rocks out of her boots. The older woman was almost limbing from the strain of so much movement. She had started complaining, though Peder wisely didn’t answer. “How could they expect this of me. No one could walk this far. I can’t move another inch. We must rest, my feet won’t go any farther.”

As she prepared to sit on the stream bank, a vicious scream erupted from the woods to the East. It was where Vince was searching. Both Peder and the Sitta slammed their hands over their ears, but the high-pitched noise was still deafening. It was the loudest thing Peder had ever heard, and made him want to vomit.

Vince came running back into the clearing, with a long scratch on his empty sword arm and blood trickling down both sides of his face. He was half naked. Vince was wide-eyed and looked to be screaming in terror, but Peder could hear nothing from his throbbing ears. Vince saw them and turned to run in their direction.

A massive creature ran behind the large man. It looked like a six foot tall evil chicken of death, Blood was on its beak, and it limped as it chased Vince.

Sitta Naani and he both looked at each other and tried to scream the same thing. 

Shrike.

Naani took off sprinting up the stream in the direction of the cave, with Peder on her heals.