Nayt gulped, and rubbed the sweat from his eyes. His face was read, and he felt that the temperature had gone up in the wagon by at least 20 degrees.

Elisa moved in front of him, sensually swaying to music that only she could hear. The deafening beat of his heart would have drowned out any notes, Nayt thought wryly. He was struggling to breath. He was so overcome by emotions that his mind became detached, and he focused on small details. Nadine’s hair was long enough to reach down to her backside, and was perfectly straight and soft. It was cut in an exact arc, so that it hung in a curve when she was still. She was almost never still, moving and bouncing and shaking constantly.

She was fire, she was water, she moved and shook in a way that he didn’t think was possible for humans. He had never seen anything like it before, and wanted to avert his eyes in embarrassment. He struggled to control his breathing. Of course, like any other 15-year old boy in his situation, he couldn’t.

When the dance ended, she turned and bent over to kiss him on the cheek. He jumped, then stammered his thanks.

“No, it is I who thank you, Wizard. It is an amazing gift you have given my people. We are already talking about you outside.”

“Um, uh, you’re welcome.”

Elisa smiled again, and pirouetted on her perfect feet. She had a golden scarf covered in small jewels that was tied around her waste. It drew Nayt’s eyes to her amazing rear end. He noticed she’d stopped, and looked up to see her smiling back at him. He’d been caught staring at her rear. He blushed again, and she giggled, stepping out the back.

That was the last of the Tinkers. He’d loaded the software to each of them, so they should all be able to send each other messages when they were close by. It was a simple thing for him, but the Tinkers were so excited that they all thanked him with hugs and kisses and… dances. Tomas had said Elisa usually dances at night to convince men to spend more money at the tents. Nayt would have given his new ring and guitar just for one more of her private shows.

He shook his head, inadvertently making the gesture to turn off his privacy setting. He noticed that Peder had sent him another few messages while he’d been working with the Tinkers that morning. And, a message from Salazaar. Hmm, that wasn’t good. His step-brother wasn’t a very talkative type. The message was a short one. “Read your messages now.”

Nayt starting playing the messages from the beginning, then his eyes went wide and he ran out of the wagon.

All the tinkers outside applauded him, laughing. He blushed again, but kept running across the road to the stables. He needed to help his friends, immediately. His stomach began aching, where the wound was still sore.

He sent back a message to the entire group. “Thank you so much. Please hold the guitar for me, I will be back tonight. Good luck!”

A few of them sent back answers, along with cryptic messages asking if he needed to go home to change clothes. 

He saw Bodo and quickly talked him into borrowing a horse, then took off riding to the West. It was almost 10am. He hoped he had time to get there in time, but as he listened to the messages, his heart sank.

He rode up and looped around the farmlands to the North. He saw a few guardsmen out patrolling around the stone wall out there, and waved to them. He was just arriving at the point where the spider had been found, when he saw the videos of Fiona’s parents being hauled off and her dead pig. She loved that pig. It was an outrage. Nayt swore that he would get his revenge on Zeke, and the extra anger pushed him to ride even harder. His stomach was aching fiercely, and he looked down to see blood on his leg. He pushed through the pain.

He entered the forest, and download a quick app to assist with horse riding through forests. It cost 4 credits, but time was critical. The app was extremely useful, and alerted him to low hanging branches and raised roots. He only had to dismount and walk the horse around some brambles a few times, but still made excellent progress. When he was close enough to see Peder’s location, he stopped. As they were on each other’s friends lists, he could see Peder from about a mile away. He wanted to stay far enough that Sitta Naani wouldn’t detect him. He finished reading his messages at about the time that he looped around to the North of the cave, and tied the horse a few hundred meters up stream. He was panting and covered in sweat, despite the chill morning. Glancing down, he saw that his shirt was covered in blood. Just seeing it brought the pain back, and he gasped.

He thought through options. If he came within 200 meters of the Sitta, she would be alerted to his presence. Peder, and presumably Sitta Naani were less than that from the cave entrance. If he went to the cave he’d be to close to her and she’d see him. How could he get them to turn around? And, what should they do about Vince, who might get violent if threatened?

He pulled up his map to scan the terrain. We remembered the last time that he’d walked up the stream with Gretchen the guards-woman months ago. Something was tickling his memory, but he couldn’t quite recall what it was. He had led her around the cave, and gone East. He scanned back through his recordings of the past and found when they had walked and how they had left the stream.

He and Gretchen had walked and then spotted a Shrike nest. Plotting the path over the map, he saw that the Shrike nest had only been a few hundred strides in that direction. Could he possibly use the nest to scare that they had seen to scare the approaching guards away? Maybe if he moved a shrike egg over, they would see it and get worried enough to leave. It was the best plan he had, so he set out to try it.

It was painful walking, and his stomach ached. He made sure to keep himself out of visibility range of the Sitta. They seemed to be paused in the stream. As he walked, he saw a moving dot, and zoomed in to see Vince leaving the group and walking towards the East. He would miss the shrike’s nest by quite a bit, but Nayt wondered if he might be able to lure Vince towards the nest to scare him away. He walked towards the man and angled so that he would emerge behind him, keeping far enough that he wouldn’t be heard, but close enough that he could keep track of Vince’s progress.

Nayt realized his mistake too late to change things. He had remembered that the Shrike nest was full of eggs, but that had been two months ago. So when he walked into a small clearing with a Baby Shrike sitting over the dead carcass of a small bugbear, he stopped in shock. The small reptile stopped it’s eating, and looked up at him. The tiny lizard looked like a naked, featherless bird. It’ skin was all white, and it would have been cute if not for the sharp blood-stained beak and intestines hanging from its mouth. Nayt froze, and the two stared at each other. A buzzing feeling started in Nayt’s belly, then started throbbing all over his belly. Danger.

Nayt raised his hands, slowly backing away. His mother had trained him how not to spook dogs and horses, and he hoped the same would work with shrikes. The small bird squawked, and flexed it’s claws. Nayt did a quick search on shrikes, and saw that the entries were relatively sparse. They were listed as a genetically evolved species that had been used for alarms, and had an extremely loud voice that could cause deafness. It hadn’t sounded so bad, so maybe this one was too young. As Nayt retreated, he felt the buzzing in him stomach lessen. He hadn’t realized before, but when the danger sense was vibrating his senses, information was shown in his data feed describing the threat and alerting him to details. It was some sort of program or app that apparently every human had automatically installed.

Nayt suddenly felt a buzzing on his back, and looked on his map. A much larger shrike had emerged from a bush behind him and was staring at his back. He was trapped, with a baby shrike in front, a mommy shrike behind him, and Vince off dumb and happy a hundred strides to the left. Vince would be killed by these things. Even though Vince was an ass, he didn’t deserve that. Nayt started trembling, and realized his adrenaline was kicking in. Fight or flight response. And he chose flight.

Without thinking of what he was doing, Nayt took off running straight for Vince. He must have surprised the shrikes, as they flapped there wings and gurgled behind him. He ran his fastest, pushing through the sharp stabbing pain in his stomach. He struggled for breath, and jumped over logs and under Faetree branches. The horse-riding app he had used was still open and it helped immensely by pointed out tree branched and obstructions and plotting a path for him to move through the dense forest.

Nayt jumped out through a bush and saw Vince squatting by a log with his leather pants down by his ankles. The man was taking a dump, and looked up in shock to see Nayt burst through the trees. He shouted something incomprehensible, but Nayt just shouted, “Run, you fool. Shrike!”

Nayt grabbed at Vince’s arm, trying to pull him. The man stumbled to his feet, then looked behind Nayt and made a respectable squak that would have done a shrike proud. Nayt pulled his arm, and jumped through another bush. Showing remarkable sense, Vince left his pants behind, and took off running in a different direction. Nayt kept running, dodging trees and logs and bushes, and covered a respectable difference before he realized he was no longer being followed. He collapsed, heaving for breath. His side was covered in blood, and his head throbbed. He vomited a little, and rolled to his side. He pulled up his map and saw that Vince was running back to the river, aiming right for Peder. Nayt sent a quick message to Peder to run and get the Sitta out of there.

Watching the map, he saw no response from Peder. Nayt realized that if were too near the Sitta, he wouldn’t see anything. By the Seven!

Nayt pulled himself to his feet, and stumbled off towards the stream. It took a few minutes, and his side throbbed with the effort. He really needed to rest soon. On the map, as Vince got near to Peder, he saw both men run. Vince turned South, running towards the river. Nayt was getting near enough that the Sitta appeared on his map. Nayt decided it would be more important to save her life than to continue hiding. Peder and the Sitta took off running North, straight towards the spider’s cave. Nayt groaned, and broke into a fit of coughing.

He pushed himself to keep going. He’d finally remembered the laser ring, and decided that this was all his fault. If someone was injured, he would never forgive himself. He just hoped that he wouldn’t pass out before he could do something. A piercing noise rang out from the clearing ahead of him, and he fell to the ground, clutching his ears in pain. The shrike’s scream hurt. He turned to the side, and vomited for the second time. He groaned, pulling himself up on his arms. He hurt all over, and was having trouble focusing.

A clump of bushes was in front of him, and he could see the big Shrike on the other side. He pulled himself forward, and saw that Peder was standing up the stream, holding his shield in front of him. He was holding his steel sword up, and waving it in the air in front of the Shrike. Peder was shouting to the Sitta to get to safety. Sitta Naani ran up the stream behind him, heading directly towards the cave opening. She must have seen it by now. Vince was nowhere to be seen, and likely halfway back to town by now.

Nayt was still angry with Peder for lying to him, but he sure looked impressive standing there in front of the Shrike trying to protect the Sitta. Nayt was having trouble thinking. Peder was as tall as the Shrike, but it was five times his weight. Nayt’s stomach was killing him, and he couldn’t force himself to stand. He pushed forward, aiming his hand at the monster. It sucked in air, and Peder flinched, putting his hands over his ears to protect himself from that wicked scream.

Nayt aimed, and saw that a blue cross appeared over his vision. He moved his finger to point at the giant chicken, and triggered the Fire command. A bright red burst of line erupted from the ring, and the Shrike screamed. It wasn’t the shriek that had deafened them before, but rather an animal-like scream of pain. Its side had turned black, and it threw itself down to roll around in the water. Peder looked up and saw his friend, staring at him in shock. 

He then turned to the monster, and swung at it with his sword. It took a few hacks, but Peder finally was able to kill it and cut the things head off.

Nayt looked at the carnage and then passed out.