Peder stepped through the fuzzy haze of the cave opening, carrying Nayt’s dripping form in his arms. His friend was bleeding extensively, and was covered in blood and vomit. He had appeared out of the bush like a fabled wizard of old, just in time to save his life. Peder wanted to hug him, but was worried he’d cause more damage. He had no idea how Nayt had burned the shrike, but he sure wanted a copy of that app. He couldn’t stop thinking of the Shrike, and actually killing it. He’d never killed anything before. It felt weird. Not as heroic as he’d expected.

Peder stopped in shock as he entered the cave. Sitta Naani was sitting on the ground against a wall. In the bright sunlight from outside the cave, he could see that her brown robe was completely red on one side. How had the shrike gotten to her? Then he saw the long wood arrow sticking out of her shoulder. She was crying and blubbering in pain.

Peder turned slowly, and saw Fiona standing by the walkway down to the tunnel, with her bow drawn and pointed at him.

“Fi, what did you do?”

“You’re helping them?”

“Fi, stop this. Nayt’s hurt. Are you OK?”

She wavered, lowering her bow. Peder was wet, tired, and had just recovered from the suddenness of the Shrike’s attack. He moved forward, and gently set Nayt down.

Sitta Naani, burbling in the corner, shouted “Kill her! Demons!”

Fiona turned, raising her bow and aiming it at the Sitta. Peder couldn’t believe it. The girl was actually going to try to kill her.

He rushed forward, and got his shield in front of her before she could fully release the bow. She was wearing a shirt-sleeved leather jerkin, and Peder marveled at how the muscles in her arms were tight and well defined. She must have been much stronger than he though, especially to pull back a man’s hunting bow like that.

“She killed my brother! And took my parents!”

Peder just shrugged, standing to defend the Sitta, who was groaning in pain. The large woman looked and sounded so pitiful.

Fiona slung the bow over back, and crossed her arms over her chest. He knew that defiant look, and knew that she’d need some time to calm down. She needed a distraction. “Can you help out Nayt?”

Fiona turned to look at their injured friend, and her look softened. She moved to his side, and gently pulled back his tunic. She gasped at the blood and the wound there.

Peder went to the Sitta, and kneeled beside her. She was breathing heavily, and looked to be going into shock. He said softly “I’m sorry Sitta, we’ll get you help. I swear to the Three, I’ll protect you.”

She turned and stared at him, eyes dilated. “My magic. It’s gone. I can’t talk to anyone!”

He understood. The cave blocked any messages in or out of it. Nayt had said all the old paces did. He’d have thought the Sabaa knew about it. Weren’t they the ones who made such spells?

“Let me look at your shoulder.” It was a deep wound, right into the plump flesh of her upper chest. From being hit and punched in the same spot by Gretchen, he knew that area of the shoulder could be very painful.

Peder went over and leaned to check on Nayt. He was moaning. Fiona had pulled off the blood shirt and was rubbling a cream on the wound. Peder stared in disbelief as the gash stopped bleeding and started closing in front of him. Nayt clenched up tight, then his body relaxed and he began snoring faintly.

“How did you do that? Can you heal Naani with that?”

Fiona stood abruptly, and turned to face him.

“You want me to help that… that… evil boar? She has my parents!”

“Fiona, what? How do you know that?”

She looked over her shoulder, towards the tunnel. Peder glanced over and saw that the big metal spider was standing there, crouched in the shadows.

“Daddy!” Fiona called.

The spider scampered up, standing between them. Sitta Naani shrieked, and tried to push herself backwards into the cave wall. She repeated a prayer over and over “By the grace of the Seven, protect me. By the grace of the Seven, protect me.”

“Show him,” she said.

Daddy nodded his spidery head, then a display appeared in air. It showed Fiona’s house in the night, and her leaving it with her backpack and bow, she stopped to pet her pig and feed it a few apples. She walked off, skipping happily towards the Northwest. The image speeded up, and then Sitta Naani came up, followed by a group of guards carrying torches. They sprang in to the house, smashing through the door, and soon dragging off her father and the still form of her mother. 

Peder watched as he soon came running up next to the house, right as her parents were being dragged South towards the Sept. Peder had already known this, so looked to the top of the picture and saw Zeke Bauer creep out of his house, talk to one of the guards, then slink down the road towards Fiona’s house. He raised his crossbow and fired on the pig. Fiona apparently hadn’t seen that part.

“You didn’t stop them!”

“Fi, what could I have done? Attack my friends? Help them escape? How?”

She has shaking in rage, and tears were streaking down her cheek. The image shut off.

Sitta Naani had watched the entire scene. She groaned, then ordered. “Guardsman, grab her. Capture her.”

Peder grimaced. Did the old woman still not know his name?

Fiona had had enough. She screamed, then ran over to kick at the injured older woman. Peder moved to pick her up, wrapping his arms around the smaller girl. She was surprisingly strong, but so was he.

He carried Fiona to the side, and was about to put her down when Nayt coughed. They turned to look at him, Fiona still restrained in Peder’s big arms.

“I’ll kill her unless she gives my parents back!”

“Fi, she can’t. If we let her out of the cave, they’ll tell everyone where we are.”

“Well, can’t we trade her for my parents?” Fiona was getting desperate.

Peder stepped up and put his hand on her shoulder. She looked close to hysterics. “Fi, I’m sorry. I’m so sorry. They took your parents to be Retired. They must be gone already.”

Fiona stared at him then took a deep breath. She turned to the Sitta, then pulled down her bow. Peder quickly reached out and took it from her.

The spider that Fiona called Daddy nodded. It showed a picture of her parents being put into the Retirement door of the back side of the Sept, between the statues of the Teacher and the Banker. The door closed. No one was ever alive when it reopened. They were gone. Dead.

Fiona took a deep breath then burst into tears. She had great choking sobs, and Peder felt awful at the sound. He pat her back, then stepped in to hug her. She gurgled and sobbed, but soon quieted down.

“Spawn Peder are you dating her, too?”

Peder looked at Nayt in shocked, then turned bright red. Nayt knew about Jayna! He gently set Fiona down, and she came to Nayt’s side to help him stand up. She had mostly stopped crying, but her dirty face was streaked with tears. Fiona pulled Nayt up and he grimaced at the exertion. He was no longer bleeding. That bacta was amazing stuff.

She explained the situation to him while Nayt listened, nodding. When she got to the part of her parents being executed, she cried again and this time Nayt hugged her as well.

Nayt stumbled over to the Sitta, who glared at him. She’d evidently figured out that all three were on the same side, and let her disapproval show in a wicked glare. 

Nayt looked at her intently. “Her Clavicle’s been broken and she is severely bleeding. Fiona, this will be worse for everyone if she dies. May I have some of that bacta to stop the wound?”

Fiona took a while to consider. A long while. Then she handed the creme over to Nayt, who gently probed at the Sitta’s injury.

Peder stepped up, keeping himself between the priestess and Fiona. “Sitta, I am sorry for this. Really.”

Nayt took off the bloody garments and cleaned up her wound. When she was no longer bleeding, he told the spider to take her downstairs and put her in the storage water. Peder wanted to intervene, but knew that it would be the safest place for the Sitta. She screamed at him the entire way down, damning him with every step.

Nayt turned to his friends. “The way I see it, we have a few problems. They will know that Peder and the Sitta disappeared somewhere near here. And, as soon as Fiona steps outside the cave, they’ll know where she is and come to kill her. They might want all of us if they can connect us together.” 

The Spider was walking back up the ramp from below. It made a sound that was suspiciously close to a throat clearing. It seemed to be smiling, and said, “I might have a suggestion that will solve your problems.”