Fiona took a deep breath and stepped out of the cave. It had cost all of the remaining credits that Nayt and she owned, but the Spider had sold her a magic bracelet that made her invisible from the Sabaa’s magic. It was made of metal, and she owed Nayt dearly for giving up so much of his money for her. Of course, she’d spent most of her money on buying medicine to heal him, so maybe they were even.

The bracelet was small, and made of a yellow metal the spider called gold. Nayt had been amazed when she had walked him through the cave and shown him the factories that Daddy and his children had made from the old pool. The spider had been busy in the last week, and had built up a massive set of boxes and objects that were used to cut and bend and put items together downstairs. It’s what the spider used to make her magic bow. The bow was made of some kind of plastic, very strong yet bendable. It was covered with face wood, and looked like a normal bow from a distance. And it was all hers.

Fiona saw that Nayt really wanted to ask the spider more questions, but he had to get back to town before the Sabaa found out he’d left. He’d limped out of the cave to his horse, and slowly rode back to town. She could tell he was both excited about the factory, and upset that it had gotten so large in the past month. The stasis pool was almost entirely gone, and the small section that held the frozen Sitta Naani looked cramped. The pool had been rimmed with large amounts of metal and glass, which had been repurposed in the factory equipment.

Daddy had said that five of the guardsmen were heading up the river in their direction. It had shown a movie of big Vince screaming and running back into town, and running into some of the other guards and yelling about the Shrike. They didn’t know that Peder had killed it, so they were coming with all the weapons they could find to rescue the Sitta. They wore rags wrapped around their head with wax in their ears. Even Fiona had heard the screech inside the cave, and it had almost given her a heart attack.

But Fiona had to get busy. She could already smell the stinky meat from the dead Shrike that was downstream. She had brought along Sitta Naani’s bloody robe and took it to the body of the Shrike. Fiona arranged the robe to look like it had been caught in bushes heading off to the West. She picked up the bloody head from the Shrike and carried it in that direction. Blood and goo still dripped from the head, and she made sure to drag an obvious trail in that direction.

Peder was finishing up in the cave and would meet her soon off to the West. Daddy had convinced him to add some “upgrades” to his sword. The spider had taken it to the factory, and said it was plating the sword blade with something called Diamond, which made it very very sharp. They were doing something else to the sword as well, but she couldn’t keep track of the conversation. All she knew is that the three friends had spent every single credit they owned. The spider was very good at getting them to spend their money.

She made it look like the Sitta had been bitten and Peder had killed the Shrike and ran off to the West. She broke branches, and jumped hard in the moist ground to make it look like a heavier person had ran by. For hundreds of strides to the West, she ripped off blood pieces of Sitta Naani’s robe. Even a blind tracker would think that the fat priestess had ran in that direction. Another four or five hours along that line would lead straight towards the town of Shore. Hopefully, they would resume the search for Naani there.

She turned and looked at the bugbear that was walking along side her. It was dressed in human clothing, and walking on two hind legs. It kept saying, “Hi Fiona! Do you have any questions?”

Fiona knew it wasn’t really a demon. She knew from talking with the spider and the boys that it was just a personal assistant, but it was still disconcerting to have it inside her head. The spider had charged 30 credits to turn on her Testing powers early. It was so weird. She had to get used to it. And she had a map of everything hovering over what she looked at. Fiona kept blinking and had to concentrate to not walk into a tree with all of the boxes hanging in front of her eyes.

The rest of the money had been spent on a spell that they bought from the spider. When she moved her hand over the spell, it made her name on the map change from Fiona to Sitta Naani. The spider assured her that it would make other Sabaa think that she was the fat priestess.

The map showed a dot moving closer to her, and she saw that it was named Peder. She could also see all the other dots of the town guardsman off in the distance. It looks like they had found the dead body of the Shrike and were moving in this direction. They would arrive in minutes. She needed to rush.

The dot was floundering. Fiona ran towards it, calling for Peder in a loud whisper.

“By the Seven! Fiona, you scared me. Wow, I didn’t see you at all on the map! Like my new sword? I know it looks the same, but…”

“Peder, let’s hurry. Did the spider explain? We need to knock you out. Are you ready?”

Peder grimaced. He didn’t like this part of the Spider and Nayt’s plan. Fiona would make it look like a second Shrike had hit Peder and chased off the Sitta.

“OK. Are you sure you don’t need to use a rock or something? My head’s pretty tough.”

Fiona stepped forward and swung her fist. She connected straight on his jaw and he dropped like a sack of meat. He was out cold. After how he had protected the Sitta from her anger, it felt really good.

Those strength pills sure had worked. She’d been feeling so much stronger and more fit in the past week since taking them.

Fiona smeared blood and cuts from the Shrike over him. It was a quick job, but he looked like a total mess when she was finished. She left the head near him, then continued running off towards the West. She turned on the spell and saw her name become Naani. She pulled off the bracelet, and her bugbear said “Fiona, you are now visible on the map with the name Sitta Naani.”

She continued running, and less than a minute later the bugbear said “Fiona, there is someone trying to contact you as Sitta Naani. They have tried many times, but the message is not working. They sent this words instead in an unprotected announcement to this area. ‘Naani, are you OK?’. Do you want to respond?” 

Fiona kept running, then said. “Yes, send back ‘I am hurt badly. Might die. Shrike. Didn’t see girl. Bye.” Oh, then add “Blessing from the Seven.’”

That sounded like something Naani would say.

She kept running and was almost to the stream that she wanted. There were many other attempts to contact her. She could tell by the dots fading behind her that the towns-guard and stopped by Peder’s body. They were at least half an hour away. When she got to the stream, she stopped to regain her breath.

She stepped into the stream, then put the bracelet back on. She would be invisible again. She then undid the spell so that she no longer looked like Sitta Naani. The messages from the other Sabaa stopped.

She felt unclean just pretending to be the evil witch. She washed herself in the stream to get off the sweat and grime and deeper feelings of being unclean.

Hopefully the plan worked. Hopefully the Sabaa would think she was gone or in hiding. Hopefully they would think Sitta Naani had ran towards Shore and disappeared in a stream. The spider and Nayt thought the plan would work.

Still invisible on the map, Fiona walked North up the stream. She was smiling. It was a beautiful fall day, and it took her a while to realize why she was smiling. She was free. Completely free. No obligations. Her parents were gone, and she couldn’t go back to Weaver’s Launch where she would be recognized. No one could trace her. They couldn’t find her or arrest her. She had her bow, and could eat and sell meat and do everything to support herself. And she had a vial of magic healing cream, and some magic powers to explore. Free to go anywhere and have her own adventures. Invisible to the Sabaa and their rules and murder.

With a whistle and a skip in her step, she left her homeland. Hopefully for good.