World Weaver Chronicles, Book 1:

WEAVER’S LAUNCH

by Jay A. Crossler


 

Version 0.99.2 − 18 Mar 2012

© 2012, Jay A. Crossler

Dedication

This book is dedicated to my son Julian, my mother Barbara, my wife Jacqueline, and my sister Jaime. 

Julian: Most of the ideas from this book came to me while singing Julian to sleep or telling him bedtime stories. We are so proud of you, son.

Barbara: You taught me to love to read from an early age and always encouraged me in everything I did. Thank you.

Jacqueline: Love you, shatz.

Jaime: Your strength and perseverance are a constant motivation. 

Special thanks also go out to my friends who encouraged me and helped me think through concepts while providing valuable feedback.

Prelude

The scout was powerful.  Strong, fast, magically enhanced.  And currently cowering at the top of a purple tree hoping to avoid the notice of a 14-year old girl.

The scout had been deep in concentration, trying to remember the complex words and hand gestures to send a message back to his squad leader.  He had missed the subtle chime from his warning spell that triggered when she entered the area.  Not that he could do much about it, hanging from the top canopy of this gigantic tree.  The branches up here were smooth and devilishly hard to hold on to.  He reached to pull out his knife, and cursed as he almost dropped it from his right hand.  Cringing, he held to it tightly and watched as the girl below walked slowly along.  She was looking down and moving her head back and forth.  Looking for something? Had she found him?  Not likely with the magical invisibility cloak that he wore.

With his free left hand, he moved his fingers into the L position, then slowly moved them outward as the wizards had taught him. He couldn’t do much spellwork, just the basics like summon pictures or talk long distances.  Words and glowing numbers filled his vision.  Having never learned how to read, much of it was meaningless.  He finally triggered the right combination that brought her image into view.  He wiggled his fingers lower until her image from below filled his sight.

The girl was young, poorly dressed, and with dark chocolate-colored skin.  She seemed intent on looking at the ground.  He wiggled his fingers to pull up another view of what she saw.  Animal tracks.  The girl was hunting.

Again a chime sounded in his ear and he tightened his hand on the knife.  Another teenager came running up to the girl underneath him.  This ‘quiet’ grove was quickly becoming too bloody populated.

The boy raised his hand in greeting. “Hoi, Fiona!” 

The newcomer was taller, had the same dark skin, and carried a well-crafted bow made of plain wood.  A mirror image of the girl. Her older brother?

Both kids had ragged clothes, dirty and ripped.  They wore dingy leather shoes, more moccasin than boot.  The girl had stains all up and down her pants.

The girl, Fiona, turned, hands on hips.  “Will you shush?  You’re scaring away the rabbits.”

The boy laughed.  “Fi, you’re in the wrong area for rabbits.  These giant Faegrove trees never have rabbits around them.  They’re poisonous, remember.  Rabbits don’t go near them.”

She pointed at the ground.  “Oh yeah, smartie?  What are those tracks then?”

He turned and bent over to study the forest floor.  “These big ones?  I’m not sure.  Look like boots, maybe from some guardsman? But these small ones are Nupbord tracks.  Same size feet as rabbits.  You know, the ones with feathers?  You can’t eat them.  They live in these purple Faetrees.  Remember, purple means poisonous, green means good.”

She looked crestfallen.  “I know the stupid rhyme, Leo.  I was going to bring you a hare as a birthday present for when you complete your Testing.”

He laughed.  She swung and punched her brother in the arm. 

Rubbing his shoulder, Leo said, “Aren’t you supposed to be collecting saltsap for the weaver?  Here, hang on to this for me.  In case you do find some dangerous rabbits.“

The scout watched as the boy below handed over his bow and a quiver of arrows.  Fiona slung them over her shoulder.  She had a sharp wooden knife hanging from her belt.  Tough girl.  The knife wasn’t metal — these primitive southerners had almost no iron or mining to speak of.  To them, northern steel was the most valuable thing they would trade for.  With no metal defensive weapons, their lands would be perfect for the upcoming invasion.

The boy turned back to town and started walking briskly.  He called out, “It’s time.  Got to go.  Don’t want to be late to my own party.  You come soon, or I’ll drink all the beer.  Bring me a rabbit to celebrate, little hunter!  And don’t let mom see you with that sap all over your pants.”

Fiona waved, then turned back to the purplish bushes.  The scout watched as she knocked a fist against a few trunks until she found one that she liked.  She pulled out a hard-wood spike and banged it into the bough of the purplish tree, using a leather flask to collect sap.  She worked for a while with the scout hanging on gingerly from above.  All three suns were up, and it was getting hot.  He was sweating under the thick cloak.

Twenty minutes later, the girl stepped away from the overhanging purple branches, shielding her eyes to looked up at the three Suns in the sky.  She cursed quietly to herself and he overheard something that sounded like,“Late”.

She took off running towards the town with the overflowing energy of youth.

The scout stretched his aching back and sighed.  He pulled a long drink of water from his canteen, savoring the coolness.  He sat up and positioned himself in a good spot to survey the town, then stowed his knife, and pulled out the metal farseeing glasses that the wizards had given him.  They blinked with lights and knobs, and it took him a while to fully focus to the right distance to see into the town.  Finally, he could begin his task of watching what the evil priests were doing there, as well as look for anything that might help the impending war.

The scout watched as townsfolk swarmed through the busy village.  A ship had docked earlier that morning with sailors and tradesman actively bartering their goods in a small market down by the river.  Swarms of kids were scattering from the old stone schoolhouse as their classes let out.

He zoomed into the town square and saw that a panting Fiona had just arrived to join a gaggle of other kids to wait for the results of her brother’s Testing.  Most of the other kids looked about her age and all were subdued.  Many were bowing or praying to stone statues of the seven gods around the church that they called a Sept.

The scout watched carefully as the door to the Sept opened and the four town Sabaa walked out, heads hung low.  He pushed the button on the glasses that would use a spell to capture the images of each priest, zooming in to collect as much detail as possible.

He watched silently as the High Priest stepped forward to deliver his verdict.