“Tell me again about the head in the screen that gave you the disk.”

“Dammit, we’ve been through this five times. I told you everything about it.”

“Nayt, I’ve been taking notes on everything you’ve told me, and things just don’t add up. It’s very important that we know that the program that gave you the disk was not dangerous.”

Nayt gritted his teeth. He hated arguing with Salazaar, and it was made worse because they weren’t in person. Nayt was in the Weavery, working with Darf on his latest revision of a plow that had wheels and tools to help with threshing the fields for the spring. Farmer Alte had finished the last ploughing of the year, and was so excited that he ordered five new plows for the Spring. Luckily, Darf was a quiet person and didn’t intrude when Nayt stared off frowning into space for long periods. He had spent his money on a brand new beautiful set of tools that Nayt was a little jealous of, and was busy working on the revisions to the Plow.

“I’m sorry. I told you everything I remember. I found the door in the Old building, then rode the lift down. I couldn’t get out, so I made a deal with the computer there to carry a disk in exchange for the credits. That’s it. I don’t see what that has to do with the spider in the cave.”

“Well, have you had a chance to look at those black spots that are all over buildings in town? I’ve seen them in nearby Pents and Cents as well.”

“Sorry, I haven’t had time to look yet. Could they just be some fungus?”

“Nayt, I think they are related. Peder said the spider acted really stupid before you put the disk in, but afterwards it became very talkative and sold you the items. And, somehow it started making copies and growing objects in the cave. I’m worried.”

Nayt sighed. In real life, he started hammering the wooden wheel cover. In the data layer, he was pacing back and forth and frowning. “I thought you liked what the spider sells?”

Salazaar shrugged. “It’s just too enticing. I spent ten years just to find a few small robots left around that could build things. It took a lot of effort to hire a construction bot to build that house up in the North. It’s just weird that suddenly, a robot that can build an entire factory and make almost anything appears in our back yard.”

Nayt shrugged again. He hated when Salazaar got so preachy. At least they were on speaking terms again. When Salazaar had arrived a few months ago, he had been furious to find that Nayt and Peder had built a factory and kidnapped a Sitta, and that an Imperial Grand Inquisitor had been sent to their small town. He was sure that it was proof that the Green Demon had escaped, even though they later found out it was just a simple construction robot. He had blamed Nayt for everything, even though Nayt was in a coma for most of it. It just wasn’t fair. Salazaar wasn’t his father. Technically, they weren’t even related. Of course, he didn’t blame Peder. No one blames ever Peder.

“Well, altogether, we got hardly anything, right? Peder modified his sword, and Fiona got a bow and arrow. And I got a few programs.”

Now, it was Salazaar’s turn to sigh. “Exactly. 300 credits was a huge amount. You could have done so much more with that. It just suspicious that you got so little out of it; almost like it wanted you to fail.”

Nayt shrugged. Calling their adventures so far a ‘failure’ hurt. In real life, he adjusted his gloves. Since wearing the ring, he’d taken to wearing gloves whenever he was in town. He still hadn’t told Salazaar about the ring and the laser embedded within it. After it warmed up in spring, he’d need a good excuse if he kept wearing them.

“That’s why I want to review the video of what happened.”

Nayt paused, then looked up. “What?”

“Will you send me the recordings of everything you saw on that night in Cat’s Cradle? I want to watch them to see exactly what the program said to you. I want to make sure it wasn’t the Green Demon.”

Nayt gritted his teeth. He was starting to get a headache. “But, I thought you examined the robot spider and said it was just a simple construction robot.”

“I did, Nayt. But, that could have been faked. Will you give me a copy?”

Nayt sighed again. Something about Salazaar made him always seem to frown or sigh. He didn’t like the feeling. “OK. Give me a second. Let me make a copy.”

The truth was, he was embarrassed. Salazaar would see every fart, every nose pick, every time he went to the privy. He thought about going in and editing all of those sections out, but it would take forever. It was a very personal thing, to give someone full access to your memories. He just needed to do it, maybe then Salazaar would trust him again.

Nayt excused himself from working with Darf, and walked out into the outhouse outside the Weavery building. It was just easier if he could use hand gestures when doing something so complex, and didn’t want to be seen in public doing something so obvious. When he was inside, he rewound his personal recordings a few months until he got to the hike with Gretchen up to Cat’s Cradle. He smiled at the recollection. It had started out as such a great trip, and ended with him being so exhausted and scared. He copied about a day’s worth of video memories, packaged it as an encrypted file, then sent it to Salazaar. It was freezing in the outhouse, and he shivered constantly despite his thick new robes.

Salazaar disappeared once he received the file, and Nayt returned his vision to the real world. It could make you a little crazy, always having your mind in multiple places at the same time.

Nayt returned into the Weavery, and finished helping Darf with the plow. He blinked to restore his visual overlays of his progress and where he’d planned to cut and reminders of the exact angles. It was calming and fun to be able to just focus on making things and improving on ideas. And, he admitted to himself, it was delicious revenge on Zeke Bauer.

The plow was their seventh revision, and looking almost nothing like when Darf had started. The heavy plow now took two oxen to pull, and had a set of heavy wooden wheels behind it with wooden blades that would both vertically dig into the soil, as well as horizontally lift the soil and turn it over while automatically sowing seeds into the fresh dirt. Another version had the blades lifted to cut wheat and barley, and would catch most of it in a basket in the rear. Farmer Alte had paid for all of them, and given the Weavery a generous advance payment for the next few models.

With these plows and some of the other tools Nayt had been working on, Farmer Alte had pulled in the same amount of crops as the Bauer farm, despite having only a sixth as much land and one tenth as many farmhands working the fields. Zeke had been forced to sell his food at a major loss, and was losing tons of customers to the competition. And that was just the beginning.

Nayt had been so angry with Zeke Bauer for shooting him then killing Fiona’s pig. The rage boiled in him, and still made him hot inside whenever he thought of it. Zeke had been bullying them his entire life, and always treated everyone in town like trash. He acted like he owned the people of Weaver's Launch in addition to owning half of the land. Nayt couldn’t take it anymore. He had to force himself not to use his ring to burn down Zeke’s house, or to shoot the young man from a distance. No one would ever know. But, Nayt would know. And, it would make the new Head Saba even more suspicious. 

Instead, Nayt forced himself to think of a more delicious way to get revenge. He finally decided that he would attack Zeke where it hurt the worst. In his wallet. All it took was a little searching on economic theory and game principles, and he found many articles describing how technology could completely improve farming profits. It had seemed boring reading at first, until Nayt realized that would be the perfect method for revenge. And, it would make Nayt rich in the meantime.

A few months later, and Zeke Bauer’s larger lands were now a disadvantage to him. Farmer Alte had less employees and less land, so could make changes much faster. And, once he’d seen the profits improve, Alte had been smart enough to invest in the newer farm devices. Nayt and Darf had come up with other machines that also helped; such as an acorn picker that had a wooden pole with a sharpened woodknife up top and a bag underneath. They had made twenty of them and given them to kids in town, who had soon realized they were perfect for picking apples as well as acorns. Within a week, the hundreds of unowned apple trees in the Southern forest were now completely bare of apples, and there were now twenty teenagers in town that were moderately wealthy for selling their apples at half the price that it cost Zeke to pick his.

Technology was awesome. He’d found a totally non-violent way to get back at Zeke. And, Zeke probably had no idea what was happening to him. Just wait until he saw how effective the new plow would be in March when the new farm season began.

Nayt loved being in the ‘zone’ and working in quiet at nights. That’s what he called it when building things just worked. Being in the zone has an amazing effect, when you’re so deeply focused on that problem that everything else fades away. You’re not interested in what you’re going to have for dinner, in what’s going on around you, you don’t care about anything other than that problem. Complete and total focus is utterly addicting. When in the zone, it feels great. Building things, you can’t always get that. You get it occasionally when everything lines up perfectly, when you’ve measured everything right before hand, and have all the parts readily available. When you really think it out, it’s more of a puzzle where you stick piece A onto piece B, and everything just works. But that doesn’t happen when there are a lot of people around you, talking, asking questions, discussing their weekend. You’re constantly interrupted, when things don’t go perfectly.

Lately, things were going perfectly, and they were making excellent progress on the new plows.

It was getting late. Nayt’s internal clock showed that it was almost 10 at night. He’d been working 16 hour days for the past month, so fixated was he on getting revenge on Zeke. Missus Peyton had already left for home, and Master Peyton was cleaning up the tools. He gave significant looks at Nayt and Darf, encouraging the boys to leave.

Nayt stood up and stretched. It was exhausting work, and he was covered in sweat despite the cold outside.His back ached, and he had numerous cuts and scrapes on his arms from all the hammering and cutting. The gloves he wore were excellent quality, made of bugbear hide and protected his hands quite well. Just thinking of bugbear reminded him of Fiona, and he shut her out of his mind. He missed her. A lot.

“OK, boys. Enough. Don’t you two have girls to chase? It’s the last day in January. Weekend tomorrow. Here’s your profits from that last plow we sold. You know we’re closing shop for a few days while the Missus and I go to Shore. Go have some fun while we’re gone, we’ll open again when we get back. Five days at least..”

Nayt glanced at Darf, who looked crestfallen. Nayt knew how he felt. He still wasn’t talking to Peder, and with Fiona out on one of her trips, he was lonely. It seemed that the only people he ever spoke to were in his head or at work.

“What, 20 crowns isn’t enough for a week of high spending?”

Darf shrugged. “It’s wonderful, Master. I just wanted to finish up some more on the plow. And there’s four feet of snow out, so not much to do.”

“Well, you can’t. You need a break. If you are really itching for more work, go see the new Saba. He’s been asking for someone to help fix up his rooms in the Sept, and I promised to send a Weaver over. But I’m leaving on our vacation. The Missus will tar my hide if I leave all the packing to her. She always gets nervous before a long horseride. Especially in Winter.”

The Harper River had frozen over weeks ago, and now no ships could get through for another few months. The only was to travel was either hiking through snow or riding horses along the rocky river banks. But, the going was slow and treacherous with more walking than riding. Teams of riders left once a week between the closest towns.

“Do you really need to go?”

“Darf, boy. We have the Spring Festival in three months. We will have thousands of people visiting from every Pent and Cent within a week’s journey. We’re the ones who have to get the town ready, and with my two most productive workers making farming tools instead of helping with the small stuff, I need to make sure we have enough goods. Or, Seven bless me, the new head Saba might Retire me if we don’t put on a good show. In addition to the Missus because I’m late. Now, I’m leaving. Take care, lads.”

The burly man reached out and ruffled both of their heads, then left to walk along the cobblestones towards home. He almost slipped on a patch of ice, then dramatically rightened himself. The two boys chuckled, knowing it was his was of reminding them to walk carefully. He was such a good teacher because he showed rather than told people what to do.

“Well, g’night Darf. I’m off to bed.”

“Nayt?”

“Yes?” Darf had been much more talkative lately, and seemed to have a lot on his mind.

“I’m scared of the new Saba. He’s Retired like a dozen people this month. If I go, will you come with? Tomorrow? If he still needs help with making things, that is.”

Nayt glanced around at the cold night, knowing that their conversation was most likely going to be listened to. Any mention of certain words like ‘Saba’ while in public invariably got back to them. And, he had big plans for the morning.

Nayt lied, putting on a fake smile. “I like the new Saba. I’m sure that everyone Retired were all demon worshippers.”

“So many, all at once?”

Nayt added in a note of confidence that he just didn’t feel. “Sure. It’s our duty to help the church and keep the town safe, right?”

It seemed to inject Darf with strength. “OK. Great. Shall we go over at noon, after services?”

Nayt sighed. He hadn’t meant to agree, and it would be hard to back out now. They agreed on the time, and Nayt trudged along back home. 

Only the cobblestones that led from the docks and to the nicer houses of town were fully cleared of snow. The dirt roads that were by the poorer houses he lived in were a mess of mud and sludge. He made his way inside, and took off his ice-caked boots and put on a new pair of fur-lined slippers that he’d bought. His mother was already asleep, and had left out a bowl of stew for him. It was already frozen. Making sure that his map showed no one close enough to notice, Nayt set his ring to a long low burn, took off his glove, then used it to heat up the clay bowl of soup. It took a minute until he was enjoying a nice warm delicious bowl of stew.

His ring showed that the charge was down to about 20%. It was time to head back to the Spider’s new cave and get it recharged. He planned to go in the morning and drop off some crowns there as well to exchange them for credits. After the new head Saba had found the counterfeit wooden crowns that Fiona had been using, they had switched to a trade system. Nayt and Peder would bring crowns, then exchange them for a few paltry credits. Nayt had dropped off over a hundred crowns so far, and only received 5 credits in return. It was better than nothing. He wondered what the spider was doing with the crowns.

Nayt practiced on his guitar and thought about things. He was still terrible, but getting better. He’d play back recordings from months ago and they were painful. Now, he was just bad. Improvement, even if he couldn’t tell day by day. He found the best time to just think about things was when he was playing the guitar.

He had bee thinking about all the people that had been Retired over the last few weeks. He knew some of them, and looked up profile pages on others. 

Everyone has public profile page with tons of personal information about them. All of the Sabaa wrote notes about who you like, birth dates, personality traits, and when you got into trouble. It was mostly embarrassing, and Nayt hated to find out such personal details about his neighbors. Missus Brampton, for examples, a great-aunt of his who lived next door had been in trouble multiple times for urinating in public. Jon Monk from across the street had always wanted to be a Saba, but had been known to date men, and so wasn't allowed in. Nayt never looked at someone's profile unless he absolutely had to.

His own profile had only a few entries in the important section, but it more that others, especially for someone his age:

- very clever woodworker, excellent craftsman

- known associates of Fiona the demon worshipper

- father murdered by brother, brother dead demon worshipper, mother alcoholic

- likes pretty girls, but not interesting enough to keep their attentions

- accused of demon worship, found innocent in tribunal

- once kidnapped by slavers from Iron North, escaped after a few hours

- shot with crossbow by Zeke Bauer, be alert for future conflicts

- 12 crowns, 38 pfennigs in bank

There were thousands of other items, but all under more detailed sections like what grades he got and how respectable he was to his elders. He was ashamed to be walking around with such information hovering over his head for anyone awakened to see. Especially when most of it was wrong. He knew he was more complex that these eight short statements. He hated that the Saba kept such notes about everyone. Worse, his entries were more likely to catch the notice of any new Saba he were to meet. Like the new Grand Inquisitor.

Going back and looking through everyone else’s profiles, he could tell there was a general pattern to who was recently killed, but couldn’t quite place it. Two had been up to Cat’s Cradle recently. One had just returned from Shore. Three were sailors on ships during the summer. Nothing really in common though. Different ages, different backgrounds, different social circles.

After playing and thinking for an hour, his fingers got numb from the cold. He crawled into bed, exhausted. Nayt fell asleep wondering what the Spider needed with all the money, and thinking about his conversation earlier with Salazaar.

Nayt awoke to a message from Salazaar buzzing in his eyes. Nayt had made it a point to never skip messages anymore. Salazaar had found nothing new in the videos of Nayt’s trip. He seemed frustrated to have to confirm what Nayt had told him. He’d spoken to a grey face in the screen, and it had paid him to copy a disk. That was all. Nothing else had happened, nothing suspicious. And no Green Demon. Nayt was annoyed to have to keep repeating himself.

Salazaar also informed him that another person had been Retired last night.

This time, it was the old cook that worked in the Inn for the evening shift. She was a distant cousin to their family. She had just been returning from picking berries from out of town across the river. Could they be Retiring anyone who left town? Nayt had never ‘technically’ gone more that a hundred meters from town since the new Head Saba arrived, and he hadn’t been Retired yet. Maybe that was a common thread. He would have to be extra careful this morning, then.

 Salazaar’s message continued. Peder had been on the team of guards that went in and grabbed the grandmother of three, and had to drag her across the street into the Sept for Retirement. The new High Saba had been there, watching. Salazaar forwarded a video from Peder where he recounted the tale which showed that Peder had red puffy eyes. Nayt couldn’t imagine how hard it would be to send someone to their death. He felt sorry for his old friend until Salazaar mentioned he was worried about Peder. Poor Peder. Everyone’s worried about Peder. At least Peder had Jayna to comfort him.

Peder spent every waking moment either on duty or with Jayna. Ever since he’d been found after killing the Shrike, he was the town hero. Even Vince the thug followed him around now, doing everything he said. Vince had retold the story of the two Shrikes attacking him and Peder saving them and the Sitta. The tale had now grown into the stuff of legends. Luckily, he’d left out all mention of seeing Nayt in the forest. Peder the hero.

Nayt rubbed his eyes, then pulled off the thick fur blankets to clean and dress in the morning chill. He went through his morning routine mostly by instinct, as he mentally was busy checking the message boards and catching up on news. More information had been posted in response to his request to learn about this Imperial Grand Inquisitor who was their new Head Saba. The man didn’t act like any Saba that Nayt had ever met, and seemed not to know any of the prayers or chants the priests usually used. Before Saba Takkai had been Retired, he had referred to the man as a Grand Inquisitor. Of course, the two remaining Saba always just called him High Saba. Nayt wondered if they even knew his name. 

The new Head Saba was… angry. Nayt almost missed Saba Takkai and Sitta Naani. The Grand Inquisitor now ran everything, and would tolerate no insubordination or hints of rebellion.

And they were on the verge of rebellion in Weaver’s Launch. The Inquisitor was seeing Demon worshippers everywhere. Since he had arrived, thirteen people had been Retired. It seemed almost random, and could be a younger kid playing with his friends or an adult walking down the street. The snow didn’t help, and everyone was keeping inside and out of danger. It was another reason that Nayt kept his laser ring on at all times. If he was grabbed and sent to his death, he would escape or die trying.

Nayt felt lonely. He was still seething with anger at Peder, but he missed having anyone to talk to. Salazaar was almost useless, he didn’t really care about Nayt’s issues.

He had to admit it, Darf was probably the best friend he had left in town. Nayt was looking forward to meeting the older boy and working with him over the weekend. It was nice having someone so quiet that let him focus, and seemed to really appreciate his ideas and inventions.

Nayt pulled on his warm outer fur coat and headed out into the ice. He wanted to go see the Spider, and had four hours before he was going to meet Darf. He grabbed the bag he’d prepared to help with his excuse.

He trudged off to the East, heading through the frozen snow to the stables. He looked to where the Tinkers had been parked, and sighed. He missed them. Tomas, Veronyca, and the other Tinkers had moved on to the West to the town of Shore and beyond, but promised to return in time for the Spring festival.

Nayt stopped by the stables, and helped feed the horses. His mom was sleeping in once again. He hadn’t actually seen her in a few days, but heard her at night. And saw the empty bottles.

After Bodo from the stables had been Retired last week, she had lost all interest in going to work. He stopped by to help out each morning. When he felt that enough people had seen him, he picked up his bag of sprouts and headed out of town to the East. He had a skip in a step and was whistling. He was going to meet up Fiona. He combed his hair with his fingers. She was looking so good lately. She’d really blossomed in the last few months. He was nervous, but grinning like a fool.