Fiona heard Nayt approaching from a mile away. She had her cloak turned to the white color of the surrounding snow, and had been waiting with drawn bow waiting. She never went anywhere without her bow. She could almost feel the new Saba searching for her, and it made her paranoid.

Nayt was wearing some weird new shoes that made his feet look like duck feet. They looked like big ovals of flat wood that strapped under his leather boots, and was allowing him to glide across the top of the snow much quicker than normal. Smart. He was always so clever. She did a quick search and found something called snowshoes that looked kind of like what he was wearing. Finding pictures of them online and actually making hem out of wood was completely different.

As soon as Nayt was a few feet from her, she sprang out of the white ground. He squeaked, and jumped backwards in fright, falling over into the snow. She laughed, and helped pull him out of the snowdrift. He was panting and had huge panicked eyes. He was staring at her bow in fright.

“Sorry, I forgot about your wound.”

He calmed down, then smiled sheepishly. “It’s OK. I just get a little freaked out when I see bows aimed at me. I guess I get so used to seeing people on the map…”

She slung her bow, and rubbed a hand over her bracelet. It did wonders at keeping her invisible from the map.

He pulled out a small wrapped package and handed it to her. “Happy Birthday. Sorry I missed it Yesterday.”

She smiled, took off her gloves, and ripped the paper off of a small wooden figure. It was delicately carved, and a perfect thumb-sized figure of her pig Penelope. A tear came to her eye, and she blinked it away before it froze. It was hanging from a woven rope necklace. She pulled off her cloak and handed it to Nayt, pulling the necklace on. He was so sweet. He’d also given her a wrapped pouch of spices and small items like skeever needles and thread. Things that made it easier for her living out in the snow. She didn’t have the heart to tell him that she could easily get all of that from Daddy the spider or by trading food. The thought was what counted.

She looked up, and noticed he was staring at her.

“What?”

He turned away with red cheeks. He must be getting cold.

Nayt also took off his jacket and switched it with her. She noticed that his chest and arms had really started filling out. He’d lost a lot of weight since his injury, and his acne had all disappeared. He must be eating better. All that hammering and working in the Weavery was really doing him some good. He was nowhere near as big as Peder, but closer to her height and well muscled. He looked good. It was her turn to avert her eyes and blush.

They exchanged jackets, then she triggered the Spider’s spell to copy his identity at the same time that she pulled the bracelet off her wrist and onto his. She’d gotten pretty good at the trick, and anyone watching the map would have only seen a slight waver as his identity dot shifted to her and he disappeared from the map. This would allow him to walk around invisible, while she appeared to be him to anyone watching in the data layer.

“OK, I’ll be back in three hours. And remember if anyone comes this way…”

“Then I shoot them.”

“No, FI!”

“I’m just joking. I’ll loop back around before they get close enough to see that I’m not you. Don’t worry, they won’t catch me.”

He nodded, then smiled at her. “Thanks again.”

On an impulse, she reached out and gave him a hug. Their faces came close together, and he smiled at her. It was a nice feeling, then she pulled away and he trudged off across the snow, waving to her. A few seconds later, he sent her a video link to his vision, and she overlaid it at the corner of her sight and send him a link of hers. She always felt so close to him when he did this; she could see what he saw and well as what she was doing. It was to keep them both safe and aware of what was going on. She loved it.

She watched him for a moment, happy to see that her cloak made him almost invisible in the snow. She then turned to pull the saplings out from the bag he’d brought. She might need to get a set of those shoes, as she noticed with approval that he left almost no tracks in the snow other than a few lines along the top that should blow away in hours.

She had been surprised to find that many trees did best when planted during the winter. Master Peyton had a few hundred trees that he had weavers plant each year for special types of wood, and Nayt had volunteered to do the planting. Somehow, he’d talked her into doing the actual work while he used it as an excuse to go see the spider. It was right on the edge of town; close enough that the Sabaa would see Nayt’s tracking dot showing him in the area, but not close enough that they could tell that she had taken his place. A clever little swap. Nayt always was so clever at those kinds of things.

The ground within the grove was frequently dug up so that it wouldn’t freeze, but it still took her a few hours to get the small tree saplings deep enough into warmer dirt so that they’d grow. As she worked, she watched Nayt’s progress in her vision, while also keeping an eye on her map. 

Nayt arrived at the new cave that Daddy the Spider had made. The new cave was smaller with the entrance behind a snow covered grove of bushes. Fiona had walked town the tunnel for about a mile and seen that it came out in the original storage cave. She went back to check on Sitta Naani occasionally. She’d thought about shooting her a few times, but always held back. A few other branches of the tunnel went deeper, but they would have been too small for her to fit in. She asked Daddy about them, and he’d said that there was no metal left close to the surface, and they had to dig very deep to find it. The team of baby spiders had been busy.

There were tracks heading into the cave, deep tracks from the last few days made by man-sized shoes. Heavy tracks. Peder must have been here recently. Nayt sent her a quick message that he “would have to talk to Peder about leaving such obvious tracks.” Peder must still be mad at her as well, because he hadn’t mentioned he had been out to see the spider to her either. Peder needed to get over his self importance.

The spider was waiting for Nayt when he arrived. It always seemed to be ready for them, no matter when they showed up. Nayt had the spider recharge the ring and dropped off some wooden coins. Fiona listened to him argue with the spider to try to get more money, but in the end Daddy only added 3 credits to his account. 

She shook her head. If only he’d take some more of the jobs that Daddy was offering. She’d done enough work to have the spider build her the color-changing cloak that Nayt was now wearing. Part of her deal with the spider was that she would reveal to no one the actual tasks she’d performed, including to Nayt and Peder. She felt bad at hiding things from him, but the spider wouldn’t budge. At least they were all small simple tasks, and never hurting people. She’d thought the spider must have a problem in it’s programming, because it had her bringing small perfectly shaped bricks and putting them into gaps in people’s walls. Maybe it was because a maintenance robot like the spider wanted to fix things, and so was making these special rocks to fix up holes in people’s homes.

She’d snuck into town for weeks, and had already placed stones in half of the houses along the Southwestern part of town. She tried to keep to the darkest nights when the suns and moons weren’t out, and had found a great app that told her when each moon and sun would rise and set. So far, no one had noticed her. And it had been dark enough that her face wasn’t noticed by any alarms. It was a risk, but at a credit per stone placed in a house, well worth it.

Nayt finished up with the spider, then met her back in the grove. He seemed happy at her progress, she’d gotten two dozen trees planted. When the Sabaa inspected the work they would think Nayt had been quite busy. And she was sure that the new Head Saba would send someone to look. He was meticulous. The last two times they had made this switch, Sabaa Eetho had come over to examine the trees each time afterwards. The Head Sabas was sending him to check on everyone and everything suspicious.

They re-exchanged garments and the bracelet, and he gave her a final hug. She left off to go hunting, but noticed that he hadn’t turned off his vision link with her. She could still see what he was doing, and wistfully watched as he walked back through Weaver's Launch. She had never liked the place while growing up there, but it tugged at her heart strings to see all the people and places that she’d used to feel part of. She sighed, and made her way up South as he was approaching the Sept. He stopped by to grab a bowl of soup at the Inn, and she noticed in shock that everyone there seemed to be… terrified.

They must be scared of being grabbed and sent to Retirement by the new Head Saba. Nayt had mentioned that the cook had been taken by guards last night. In fact, she realized that most of the people she’d seen looked scared. It was something in their eyes. Everyone looked around quickly when Nayt walked by them, but no one made eye contact. Very few people were outside, both from panic and snow. The town was in a panic. She wondered if Nayt had noticed. He was usually so focused on his thoughts that he would miss small clues like that, just like he’d forgotten to turn off his shared vision with her.

She kept hiking, then soon made it to the Harper River. She scampered across a frozen part of the river, then continued South towards Oakenvale. They had a small Cent there, with farmers and loggers living outside town limits. There were many families there that would buy meat and skins from her, especially in winter. She’d bought a number of hunting apps from the spider, and now had many new tricks for tracking and targeting woodlife. She’d make her way in a circuit across a few other Cents, then head back up to Weaver's Launch in a week or so to see if Nayt needed more help. She had a few other specially-made stones from the spider that needed to be delivered.

She loved the freedom she now had, and had visited so many Cents and Pents over the last few months that she lost count. The only thing she missed was having friends to talk with, and that’s why it was so nice to watch what the video feed from Nayt. The waterproof snow clothing and camouflage cape she purchased from the spider kept her warm and healthy. She also had a small pouch hanging from her belt; a special pouch that the spider had told her to throw at someone only if it was an emergency.

She watched as Nayt met up with Darf and went into the Sept. Saba Eetho, looking gaunt and exhausted, escorted them upstairs. She sent Nayt a few messages to remind him to turn off the video feed, but remembered too late that his local dataview would shut off when he was near any of the evil priests. She could see and hear him, but he was effectively blind to the online world. No worries, she’d have entertainment as she hunted along her travel. 

As she walked, she used her sonar app to help make bird calls and animal sounds. It was very worth the steep 8 credit price tag. The spider had given her a necklace, one that was wrapped tightiy around her throat and covered her vocal chords. With it, she could pull up any animal and concentrate on a tree branch or bush, then squeak. On her vision, she’d indicate where the noise should come from and where the listener was, and it did the rest. The app did something to change her voice so that it would make it sound like that animal’s mating call sounds were coming from where she aimed. Kinda like how one of the Tinkers she met could do ventriloquism with a dummy, except that instead of throwing her voice, it was high-pitched animal sounds. Very useful, and helped her flush out two winter hares.

When not hunting, she watched Nayt’s video feed. There was something so familiar about the new High Saba. She felt like she’d seen him before. Many times. She just couldn’t place his face. He was short, and thin with a big hooked nose.

The High Saba was in a foul mood. The room was large, and dark. It was lit by some sort of candles in the ceiling that didn’t flicker. He’d apparently smashed a shelf in his bookcase, as there were splinters of wood and books everywhere along the side wall. He’d apparently thrown a stone statue head of the Father through it. Fiona wasn’t sure, but it seemed like a pretty sacrilegious thing for a High Priest to do.

Bored with just watching them work, Fiona posted a picture of the High Saba’s face on the rebel message boards. Nayt had showed her how to join, and she spent hours each day getting into conversations about how evil the Sabaa were and how they needed to be destroyed. People on the message board that lived in the Capital identified him as a powerful man named Nebe. He was known in the Capitol as being head of the Criminal Police, and was almost never seen. Records shown that someone with that name and face had been in the position for thousands of years. No one on the boards believed that a person could live that long, so it was possibly the same family that had always held the job. Fiona wondered, though. Could it be the same man living all those years? And if so, what would such a man think like?

She tried to sent Nayt a message about Nebe, but he was still blocked. He should know who he was dealing with. Such a man would be very dangerous.

A giant bed was against the other wall. There were very little other furnishings in the room. Still, it was much nicer than the caves and lean-tos that she frequently slept in.

Nayt and Darf got to work, and soon were patching up the shelves. She saw both Darf and Nayt glance at the books multiple times. It figures, they were both the nerdy types. Nayt flicked through a few of the books as he was working on repairing the shelf, but she couldn’t recognize any of the writing. She could tell it was in the old language, the same one that was used for many of the controls in her online access, but she hadn’t yet learned enough of it to make sense of the words.

It was nearing 5pm. Fiona was close to her destination of Oakenvale, and was trudging through the snow towards a cabin where she could trade one of the hares for some corn and a night’s rest in a warm barn. She was starving, and looked forward to a hot fire to cook her meat on.

She was about to knock on the door when she noticed a shadow against the wall in Nayt’s vision, and it struck her as weird. She reached out to Nayt’s video feed. She could rotate it around in a circle to see what was behind him or to any side. When she did, she gasped. The new High Saba was standing behind Nayt and staring at him while Nayt read through the old book. Of course. Nayt was reading a book in the old language, something which he couldn’t know. The High Saba had a triumphant smile on his face. He knew.

Fiona cursed, and turned around to run back the way she had come. It was a six-hour trek back to Weaver's Launch. She had to get back before the head of the Criminal Police grabbed Nayt to send him to his death and Retirement. 

Who could she trust? What choice did she have? She sent a message to Peder and ran through the snow back towards the North, cursing.