Peder felt miserable. He’d been arguing with Jayna before going to sleep. She was still furious with him for sending her Aunt to Retirement last night. What was he supposed to have done, fight the head Saba? Truthfully, he’d been thinking of refusing, of turning in his guardcloak, and just quitting. He was afraid that would bring more scrutiny upon himself and so had complied with the High Saba’s orders. The guilt and fear were knotting him up inside.

Yesterday was the worst. It was Fiona’s 15th Birthday, and the Head Saba was convinced that when she reached the time of her Testing at noon, an alert would be sent with her location. He had the entire towns-guard out and dressed in thick leather clothes ready to head off in an attack, and promised them double pay for the mission. He didn’t know that she already had her data-stream turned on, so no alert would be sent. He was convinced that she was hiding out in someone’s house in town or in a cave nearby. He was quite upset when no such event occurred. He screamed something about not getting the support he needed from his supervisor.

Both Nayt and Salazaar had been watching with Peder in the dataview, and shared a chuckle when the Inquisitor started fuming and shouting. He abruptly ordered Guards-captain Willis to return his men to their barracks without their promised pay. Three fights broke out that night. Bored soldiers were bad enough. Angry bored soldiers got drunk and broke things. Around midnight, perhaps in a fit of rage and the quality of her onion soup, he’d ordered them to grab the cook from across the Inn across the street after she’d brought him dinner.

Peder was getting sick of the Sabaa. He’d been either with Jayna, asleep, or close by one of the priests every hour of the last week. Saba Eetho and Sitta Aimee were OK, though Jayna just got more jealous whenever he was near the pretty Sitta, so he tried to avoid her. Eetho was always sullen and tired. Luckily, Aimee had accompanied his parents on their trip to Shore this morning, so that was one less thing to worry about.

Peder had been working nights lately, and had barely slept today. He’d even turned on some old music in his head, something called Classical, but sounded like a very advanced and almost scandalous version of the music you sometimes heard from traveling minstrels and the elves. It reminded him of the Tinker troop and how the woman Elisa had danced. Sultry, adult, and very sexy the way the violins teased the notes out. He was glad that his parents didn’t know he listened to such adult music. But, it hadn’t helped put him to sleep like it normally did. He’d tossed and turned all day, kept awake by a few stray beams of winter sunlight coming through his blocked-off window.

Around 5pm, someone banged on his door to rouse him. It was Gretchen, and she had Saba Eetho with her. Some emergency, and they wanted him to help apprehend yet another Demon Worshipper. Saba Eetho looked tired and sad. Peder knew that he was a nice man, and must take all the killings of the last few weeks very personally. They were people he'd lived with, taught, and known his whole life. Many were family, as everyone in town was somehow related. Thirteen retirements all in a few weeks was unheard of. Peder had no idea what was causing it. All he knew was that the rest of the town was starting to panic.

He sighed, and pulled on his boots. He hated this part of the job. Hated Retiring people.

It was just getting dark out, the sun was setting earlier and earlier in the winter time. 

 A message from Fiona interrupted him, and he played it with apprehension. Stuck up Fiona, so proud to be a rebel. She had barely spoken to him in the last few months. What she had to say though was troubling. Very bad.

He decided to take his father’s sword, and strapped on a few extra daggers. If only he’d been back to the spider recently to put some more additions on to his sword. He’d been avoiding the spider, knowing that the High Saba was paranoid for any excuse to Retire people. He sent a quick message to Salazaar updating him on the situation. Salazaar was over near Williamsport, a Cent about 12 miles away. It’d take him a few hours to get into town, so he told Peder to try to stall. Stall? How would he do that? Salazaar was so demanding sometimes.

As he ran down to the courtyard, Vince the Giant came up to him. Vince spoke softly around Peder now, and always kept his head bowed. “Peder, um sir, can I talk to you?”

Peder grimaced. He didn’t need this, not now. “I’m kinda busy.”

“Sorry, sir. It’s really important. I need.. help on something.”

Vince and the other Beasts were still technically assigned to Peder as their training officer, so he should be the first to help with their problems. “OK, Vince. As soon as I get back from this task. The High Saba needs us.”

The big man visibly blanched, looking around in worry. “Retirement?”

“Yes, I think so.”

“Never mind. I have to go.” Vince practically ran up to the barracks. Strange guy.

He fell in line with the guards that were heading out towards the Sept. Six of them, counting Gretchen and Saba Eetho. Gretchen was standing very close to the Saba, as if she would protect him from any potential attacks. The poor woman was so smitten with the guy. Peder wondered if he even knew.

Peder’s heart sank when he saw where they were going. The Sept. It was going to be Nayt that they retired. By the Seven Gods, what should he do?

Stall? How could he stall? What was he going to do? Standing up to a Shrike seemed easy in comparison. Peder’s stomach was in knots with worry.

It was dark outside, and they all carried torches. The winter sun had already set, and both moons were barely on the horizon. A bad omen. As they approached the Sept, Peder noticed that most of the god statues were covered in snow. In the dim light, he could only make out the features of the Outsider. Another bad omen. He gripped the hilt of his sword in panic. What was he going to do? He couldn’t help with sending his best friend to his death.

There were a few people standing outside the Sept, looking like they wanted to go inside. Gretchen waved them away, and they cowered from the guards.

Gretchen stationed the other guards at each of the two doorways into the Sept, then had Peder follow her and Saba Eetho upstairs. He just received a message from Fiona, but as Peder got close to the young priest, his data vision disappeared. Ugh. He felt like he was going into a fight blind. He hadn’t had time to read her message. He hoped it was important.

With a sinking feeling, they walked up the stairs inside the Sept. Peder hadn’t been upstairs before, and it was an uncomfortable feeling. There were paintings of the Seven everywhere, staring at him. He passed right by a painting of the Searcher, and was struck by how familiar the face looked. Something about that large nose…

Peder refocused his thoughts. No time for distractions. Saba Eetho took them to a door, and told them to position themselves outside and draw their weapons. Peder’s heart sank as he looked inside the room. Sure enough, it was the High Saba and Nayt with his cousin Darf. Nayt and Darf had their backs to him, and were hammering a wood shelf into place on a bookshelf. Oh, Gods, what was he going to do?

Peder decided. He’d had a good life. He loved his town, loved his family, and loved Jayna. He was still angry at Nayt, but he didn’t deserve this. Duty and friendship had to come over one’s personal happiness. He knew what his father would have done. Both his real father as well as his adopted one. They would do what was right, and defend their friends.

With that sudden clarity, Peder planned his attack. He would wait for the High Saba to be distracted, then lunge at him with his sword. He’d try not to kill the man, only smack him against the side of his head with the flat of the blade, then turn to protect Nayt from Gretchen. They could probably get downstairs and out the door, but might have to fight their way through the guards down there. He would handle that problem when it came time.

He took a deep breath, calming himself while the High Saba spoke. 

“It is time to reveal your treachery.” The high Saba spoke in a deep, calm voice. 

Both Nayt and Darf stood up and turned to face him. They both paled when they saw the guards. Nayt made eye contact with Peder, who nodded to him. Nayt was holding a hammer. It would have to do as a weapon. Hopefully they could put their differences aside for now.

The High Saba continued. “I’ve known for a while that there was a large amount of Data being used at the Weavery. For a while, I thought it might be that idiot Weaver or his wife. Now, I know it was you. It’s been you all along.”

Nayt grimaced, and prepared to speak.

He was cut off by Darf, who stepped forward. Everyone looked surprised, including the High Saba.

“I’m so sorry, lord. It just happened. Last week, all these pictures just came into my head. I tried to make them go away, but can’t. I tried to work hard to drive them away, but it didn’t work. I wasn’t sure they were demons, but they must be. Please, save me from the demons. I can’t take him talking to me anymore.”

Everyone in the room stared in shock at Darf.

Gretchen broke the silence. “Come with me, you scum.”

She stepped forward, and spun the boy around. Darf was Peder’s cousin. He suddenly felt shame. He had just been about to jump to his friend Nayt’s aid, but now it was his own family. What should he do?

Gretchen looped two strands of rope around Darf’s wrists. He meekly allowed her. “To the Retirement room, High Saba?”

The shorter man looked at her, then back to Nayt. Nayt had his head bowed and was rubbing his hands together. He seemed to be fingering his ring.

“Yes, take this boy to be Retired.”

“You.” He pointed at Peder. “Go fetch Nayt’s mother. I want her here for after the Retirement. We have further business.”

Peder’s eyes went wide. Did the Saba know that she was really Peder’s mom? Had he figured it out? Was he planning on Retiring all of them?

He couldn’t Retire his own mother. He had to do something.

Gretchen suggested, “Lord High Saba, may he stay here until I get back and keep you both safe, then go get the woman?”

The High Saba reluctantly nodded.

She left with Darf in tow, holding his arms high in a painful arm wrench.

The rest all stared at each other.

The High Saba was about to speak when Saba Eetho’s eyes went wide. “Lord, did you hear that?”

The two Saba turned to look at each other. They glanced at Nayt and Peder, who just looked back at them, eye’s wide. What was going on?

“Guardsman Peyton. Grab Nayt, bring him downstairs.”

Peder did so, gently putting his hand on Nayt’s shoulder and ushering him in front of the Saba. He gave his friend a reassuring squeeze. Nayt flinched away from him. After everything, did he still blame Peder?

When they arrived downstairs, the scene was pure chaos. It was dark outside, and the guard’s torches made it hard to see what was happening. Gretchen was standing at the doorway, standing above the four guards. All were tied together. Darf was sitting on the ground next to them. He looked to be half in a puddle of snow, and was shivering. A crowd had gathered around the group, and all were talking excitedly. Peder saw his mother, his real mother, in the crowd. He was happy to see that she looked totally sober, though scared.

The High Saba’s raised his arms, and bright lights sprang up from all around the Sept. The area fell silent, shocked to an awed silence by the bright steady lights. The entire area looked as bright as in daylight. Peder saw that there were about 20 people outside, shivering in the freezing cold.

He spoke with a booming, amplified voice. He sounded furious. “What is the meaning of this?”

Gretchen quaked, and shrunk her shoulders in fright. “My Lord. They… are demon worshipers. They… spoke inside my head. I don’t know…”

The short man halted, then looked around. He took in the trembling guards, Darf crying on the ground, and the crowd of townspeople looking shocked and fearful. The entire crowd seemed to be averting their gaze.

“You. People. Why are you here? Did you… also see demons?”

A collective gasp went up from the crowd, and a number of women started crying.

A young boy jumped through the crowd and started singing, “Spider, spider, spider wants to play!”

The High Saba pointed to Darf. “What did you do?”

Darf paled, and began shaking even more. “I didn’t know my Lord. The spider just came to me yesterday morning and offered me a new set of tools if I would just fix a hole in the Inn. He had me come to cave North of town and gave me a rock to patch up a crack in the wall of the Inn. That’s it, I swear.”

Nayt and Peder turned to look at each other. What was going on here?

Eetho suddenly looked up. “My Lord. They are awakening all around us. Do you see? All the towns around us, the Saba are reporting...”

The High Saba turned, and slapped Saba Eetho. “Shut up, fool!”

He pointed to an older man standing in front of the crowd. He was one of Peder’s cousins, a dark-skinned man that worked at the Bakery with Jayna. “And you. What did you see?”

“My… Lord… It’s as he said. A spider appeared. I though it was a dream. I could put my hand right through it. It paid me 10 crowns to drop off cakes and food near the guard barracks. Yesterday, my Lord. Then it just appeared a few minutes ago and told me to come to the Sept. I didn’t know it was a demon, my lord. I swear. It said it worked for the Gods. I always pass my Testing. I always say ‘Xan Sell’ when it asks me if I want to enable dayta. I don’t want dayta! ‘Xan Sell’!”

With these two admissions, the crowd started opening up, all now clamoring to confess to the High Saba. Everyone, it seemed, had been having visions of the spider. People had been trading with it, doing tasks, buying and selling objects and so on. Some for hours, some for day. They had all just been asked by a spider vision to come to the town square to receive their blessings from the High Saba.

All eyes turned to the Grand Inquisitor. He suddenly appeared very very old. He put his hand to his face. He turned and pointed to Darf.

“Bring him here.”

Gretchen pulled the boy up, and he squealed. Peder felt for him. She’d put him in that position many times during training.

The Inquisitor said. “Everyone, quiet. Boy, listen to me. I don’t know why I can’t access your information, so I am going to give you a glowing disk. Take this and say you accept it. It will tell me who started all of this.”

Peder and Nayt could see a half-formed square appear in the air in front of the Saba. Everyone else gasped, then fell silent. Peder stepped backwards until he was far enough from the two Sabaa that his and Nayt’s dataviews were re-enabled.

They both gasped as well at what they saw.

Everyone around them was glowing in their data vision. They had all been awakened, and were swarming with numbers and text and other information around them. These were their friends and cousins that now had data access!

Peder could tell that most of them were completely new to being online, and hadn’t changed their privacy settings or hidden their presence. They would be completely obvious to anyone that saw them. The High Saba would know immediately.

Maybe the High Saba had actually been finding awakened people over the last few weeks and Retiring them. Peder had though he was just being paranoid and Retiring people for no reason.

Nayt took a few steps back across the street to stand by the black spot of rocks on the side of the Inn. Could these be from the rocks that everyone mentioned? Could it be some sort of program from the spider that grew to cover nearby rocks? Peder noticed him examining it with his datavision. Nayt must have forgot that he was angry with Peder, as he sent a message that there was a program running on the dark part of the rock. 

Nayt continued, boringly speaking like he was teaching a class. Normally, such programs would be encrypted but Nayt seemed to have the authorization to read it. It looked like a very simple program that would run a command on anyone who touched it. He copied the program, saying that maybe it would be useful later. He must have realized that he was talking to Peder again, because he looked up sheepishly and stopped talking.

They watched as Darf reached out to accept the spell from the High Inquisitor. When he did, thousands of floating pieces of text swarmed all around them. It listed his name, his information, personal settings, and every option that could be set when interacting with the data view. Peder had used a few of these settings before, but hadn’t known there were so many.

The High Saba reached out and touched one of the settings that hovered above Darf’s head. Peder keyed his vision to zoom in on it, and could easily read the text that scrolled by.

It said, “Data Access Permission Override authorized by: Naytan Peyton-Fabe, Royal Prince of Thorn.”

Everyone that read it turned to look at Nayt. Saba Eetho stared, mouth wide in shock.

Nay’s mother spoke up. They could both see her glowing as well with text and online information. “Peyton-Fabe? What?”

Peder sighed. “Oh, crap.”