Nayt’s mind was swimming. He noticed that there were messages piling up from both Fiona and Salazaar, as well as messages popping in from many other people. Townspeople. Cousins and family members trying to understand what was going on with the new systems that had appeared in their vision. The entire town seemed to be awakening around them. If they didn’t have an extremely upset High Inquisitor in their midsts, he would be pretty excited.

He turned to face the crowd. They were all staring at him, with more townspeople constantly arriving. The lights from around the Sept were bright behind him, and cast the area in an eerie glow. Cousins, friends, everyone he knew seemed to be showing up and staring at him. Guards-captain Willis was arriving, with a contingent of other guards. Half were glowing with awakened icons.

His mother looked at him, expectantly. His step-mother. Though she didn’t know it.

“Mother, I’m sorry. I should have told you earlier. Salazaar switched us at birth. That’s why we were awakened, cause our Testings were on the wrong day’s. Peder’s your real son”

“Oh, Seven!”

Peder turned to her and smiled sheepishly.

“Um, Hi Mom.”

She broke out crying, looking from one boy to the next. She shook her head, then her eyes narrowed in anger. It looked like she was about to scream at him.

“How long? How long did you know this?”

One of the ladies next to her wrapped her into a hug, but she pushed the shorter woman away.

Nayt frowned, and shivered. He suddenly felt very cold. This was the worst time for this conversation.

“Mom, I’m sorry. Nothing’s changed.”

She broke free from the other woman and ran to them. Nayt sighed, then scowled when she wrapped her arms around Peder. He heard her whisper to him, “My baby.”

Nayt brushed back a tear.

He turned to the High Saba. He had his ring ready, in case things got ugly. He wanted it to get ugly. He shouted, “I didn’t do this. I don’t know how to awaken people.”

Though shorter, the man was very imposing in his black clothes and robe. He stepped towards them, which caused Nayt’s displays to turn off. He could no longer see the floating indications that the town was coming online.

“Boy, you know something. Your data access turns off whenever you’re within range of me. You’ve had help.”

Nayt sighed and rubbed his freezing face. His anger was draining. He saw his mother pulled back into the crowd. At least she would be safer there. He wasn’t prepared for this, but guessed it was time to confront things.

“High Saba. I have been awakened for some time. There is a spider robot in a cave to the North, but it’s just a maintenance robot. It makes things and sells things. I don’t now anything about awakening people, though. I didn’t know anyone here had data access until just now.”

The High Saba gestured, then held out a hand to silence everyone. He turned to the Sept. An image was forming by the statues behind them. It was a huge figure, standing heads taller than even Peder. Nayt realized with shock that it was a perfect recreation of the statue of the Father, who was right behind it.

The High Saba knelt, and bowed his head. “Authority. Thank you for coming. I fear I must report another… outbreak.”

At the name of the Authority, everyone in the crowd gasped and fell to their knees in snow or ice. No one had ever seen the man before. He was a mythical figure that ruled the realm from the distant Capitol.

The projection of the large man turned, surveying the crowd. He had a very handsome face. Regal. He had the same smooth skin as the High Saba, with old and wise eyes.

“Nebe. I’m getting reports of hundreds of new data activations in the last few days. All of them started broadcasting publicly ten minutes ago. What have you been doing?”

“Authority, I am investigating this now. It appears that this boy is the root of the problem. He’s programmed a robot to awaken people, though possibly unintentionally. ”

The specter of the Authority stepped towards Nayt and peered at him. He waved, and Nayt’s data access reappeared. The Authority had somehow just cancelled the spell that Salazaar had given him to hide from Sabaa. The Authority could override his personal programs. That sent a chill down his spine.

Nayt felt naked in front of the man and the crowd. Everyone was staring at him. He, like most of the crowd, was freezing… though the shivering might have been more from fear than cold. He watched as data menus popped up around him, and his private settings were revealed. He didn’t like someone else having access to all of his most internal information.

The Authority turned to the High Saba. “Inquisitor Nebe. Return everyone to their homes. Lock this Pent down. Retire anyone found outside.”

Grand Inquisitor Nebe turned to guards-captain Willis and relayed the orders. The captain was swift, and soon had the entire courtyard cleared. Only Nayt, Peder, Saba Eetho, Inquisitor Nebe, and the ghost of the Authority remained. His mother put up a screaming protest, but Gretchen finally was able to drag her away. Guards-captain Willis came back to the square and protectively stood behind the two Sabaa. Gretchen returned soon after.

The Authority was still looking through Nayt’s data, with hundreds of data windows open. The man was a master with interfacing the data systems. He said, “I am shutting down data access to this entire sector. No one outside of this square will be able to access the network. That will slow down the spread of this infection.”

The Authority then continued pulling up more data from Nayt. A video screen popped up in front of Nayt, rewinding in time to when he and Gretchen hiked to Cat’s Cradle. Gretchen gasped as she saw him get up at night and sneak away from the inn, and watched him get arrested and later sneak into the bunker. She looked at him, furious. The others stared at his crimes, and Nayt hung his head in embarrassment.

When it forwarded to the part of him bargaining with the black-faced computer program, the video stopped. The Authority waved again. A second video appeared, this time from inside the bunker. It showed Nayt speaking to a computer monitor with a green-faced demon on it. Nayt was stunned at the differences. They played through the video at normal speed, and showed him bargaining with the Green Demon. In the modified video, it seemed dull and stupid. In the real video, it appeared complex and crafty. 

This must be why Salazaar hadn’t found any indication that it was the Green Demon who he had been working with. It had somehow changed the recordings of what he’d seen.

The video forwarded to the part when Nayt had accepted the spell from the Demon and paused. The Authority gestured, and the details of the spell appeared in front of them all.

“This is the issue. This program gave the Green Demon full access to your authorizations and memories. It’s a virus.”

He continued, “It used you to later load a copy of itself into a robot, and then that robot has been using your access codes to awaken people. I’m guessing you were the ones who illegally created the Kingdom of Thorn up in the North six months ago. This would have given you the powers to awaken others. You, my little friend, have been tricked. Royally tricked.”

The Inquisitor shook his head. “This is the reason we have rules. We locked that damn program up a thousand years ago for a reason.”

Nayt was silent. This was all his fault. He had been so tired, and wasn’t paying attention that morning. He had brought the demon out of its jail, and given it a new body inside the spider. The entire time they were dealing with the spider, it had been the Green Demon inside of it. Crafty, smart, manipulative. That’s why it was able to trick him out of money so well, the reason the simple reason suddenly became more animated and clever.

The Authority turned to Nayt. “You have a choice. I would have to change all of the laws and data of this world to reset the problems that you’ve caused. We cannot tolerate another outbreak of data access like this. The last one nearly ruined all of our plans. People can not know what is really going on. You are the only one who can revoke the access.”

Saba Eetho reached out his hand to place it on Nayt’s shoulder. A show of support. Nayt really appreciated it.

The Authority turned to stare at Eetho.

“And you, young Saba. I see you haven’t yet received training.”

Eetho looked stricken. Nayt was reminded that he was only a little over 20. Still relatively young.

“Um, Your Lordship, I’m scheduled to go to the Capitol in the Spring for training. Once the rivers melt and boats can pass.”

“So you know nothing of how the world really works. I’m sorry this is your first insight into these issues. But, back out of this until I finish my business.”

Eetho bowed, and lowered his hand. “My apologies, Lord.”

Nayt shifted uncomfortably. He was freezing, standing out here in the cold. “What do you want me to do?”

“The deal is simple. Option 1 is that we declare this town and everyone North of the river as outlaws. This is what happened to the Iron Lands. They were kicked out of our kingdom. I turned off their network connection. Now, they awaken everyone, but they have no programs that work. As rebels, our charter says they don’t get to use our Septs. They don’t get to be put in stasis. This could happen to you as well. When you die, you will face the true death.”

“Option 2, I’ll give you a program to run that will revoke all of the unauthorized access. You’ll bring everyone affected to you and you’ll have to touch them for it to take effect. This will ‘unawaken’ them. Then, we hunt down that virus called the Green Demon and destroy it. For good this time. If you do this, I’ll bring you to the capitol. Your profile says that you love building things. I’ll give you metal, designs, tools. Whatever you want. You can make anything you like, just keep it away from the sleepers.”

Peder stepped forward, his hand on his sword. “Um, Sir? Authority? What would happen to all of the people already awakened that know about this?”

The huge specter of the Authority turned as if noticing Peder for the first time. “All the rest of you will have to be Retired of course.”

Nayt and Peder glanced at each other, stunned. Nayt thought of his mother. Of all of his cousins in town. There must have been hundreds of people in that crowd that were already awakened.

“You’ll kill them all?”

Inquisitor Nebe laughed. “Kill them? Boy, is that what you think?”

The Authority spoke, incredulously. “Retiring people does not kill them. They go into storage. Into stasis. They will sleep for hundreds of years. The sun is exploding. Don’t you listen to any of our sermons?”