The Authority said, “We were hired by your ancestors thousand of years ago to evacuate this planet. One million credits for each of the Seven of us. They realized the sun that you call the Torch was unstable. It’s getting ready to explode, and when it does, it will ignite the Candle. Those will have enough power to explode the Sun. All life on this planet will be destroyed. For eight thousand years, we’ve been evacuating people. We’re so close to being finished.”

The Inquisitor continued, “But, every time we do, more of you bastards keeping multiplying and rebuilding societies. You’re like rabbits. Well, the last ship is coming in two hundred years. We have been putting people in stasis for the last two millennia. For them, it will feel like hours until our ship returns to rescue us all. And then our job is over.”

They turned at a choking sound. Guards-captain Willis was on his knee, and seemed to me crying. “My Wife? She isn’t dead? Only sleeping?”

The Authority squinted, looking up data. He seemed to have forgotten that others were present. “Name is Willis? Yes, your wife was Retired four years ago… from cancer. She’s in a storage capsule below the Sept, with her parents and your… daughter that fell and hurt her head as a child. They’re both being healed inside. To your wife, it has felt like only minutes since she entered.”

Nayt was pacing back and forth. His hands were freezing, but his mind was moving so fast that he didn’t even notice. “Why does everyone have data access then? And why do you force them to turn it off every year?”

The Authority sighed. He seemed tired. He must be so old. Must have seen so much. “Every human has data access. Your ancestors built in into everyone so that you pass it to your children. This is a colonial planet, and they have laws that I can’t override as a manager. That’s why we all have things like the danger sense that alerts us to threats. It’s programmed into our genetics. That’s why the Elves don’t have full data access. They long ago altered their genes to the point that things don’t fully work with them. A different operating system, if you will.”

“Our contract was to evacuate the planet, not to allow you to surf the web. The more data you people had access to, the better you could make tools. The more food you could harvest, and the more medicine you knew. More food meant more babies, and we can only take two million people in our ship. It will be close as is. We can’t allow people to know what is really happening or they will multiply out of control and you will all die. It’s the only way to fulfill our contract and evacuate the planet.”

Inquisitor Nebe nodded his head. “We’ve seen it before. This is the fourth time a group has figured it out. The first two were taken off in the last shipment.“

The Authority continued, “Last time was when we cut off the Iron Lands to the North. We used to have 10 Pents along each of the rivers. We cut off the top five when the Green Demon orchestrated the last outbreak. Now, our contract states we don’t have to evacuate rebels, so they don’t get to come into the Septs and take up valuable storage space.”

Nayt asked, “Why can’t you just turn off their access or find them and stop them?”

The Authority grimaced. “For all of the rest of you, I have administer rights. I can find your location, or turn off some of your permissions. Everyone that you awakened, I don’t have that power, only the person that awakened them does. You. This planet is under colonial rule. That means everyone gets data access as a human right. I can’t override that. But, I can get them to voluntarily disable it every year.”

“The Testing rituals.”

The Authority nodded. “Exactly. We just invented this religion so that everyone turns it off for themselves. Some people don’t do that hand signs correctly, so we just retire them when their young before they can become a problem.”

Nayt saw that Saba Eetho was shaking his head. Crying. It must have felt like such a betrayal to him. He’d thought he was going in to be a priest, to help people. But everything was a lie. 

He turned and saw the same look of betrayal and outrage on Captain Willis’s face. To have lost your family, to think they were dead, and find out you’d been lied to just to reduce the breeding count. It must have stung bitterly.

The Authority turned to Nayt. “Enough wasting time. Now you know everything. Are you ready? Take this spell, then have the guards bring everyone here and touch them to remove their access. Then Retire them. Nebe, you take care of the rest. I have troops on the way. When everything is cleaned up, bring this boy to the Capitol and I will give you the tools I promised.”

It was an amazing concept. Everyone he’d known wasn’t dead. Just sleeping. Waiting. In stasis, safe. His mother would be safe. Dom, who he’d thought was killed by Saba Takkai, safe. Fiona’s brother would be safe. To them, no time will have seemed to pass before they are rescued and taken to the stars. To a new, wondrous life.

“Boy? Let’s go. We don’t have time for this.”

An idea occurred to Nayt. A strange, and terrible idea. The more that he thought, the more it occurred that he might be right. In fact, he was sure of it. He knew when he was being bullied. The spider had done it to him in Cat’s Cradle. Had made him hurry along and take the spell so that it could gain access to his powers. It had used those to awaken people without his permission, and to rewrite his memories of the event. If someone was pushing him to make a decision, it must be because they were hiding something. Why had the Authority kept them out here in the freezing cold at night? They could easily have moved the conversation into the Sept or even the Inn. The more Nayt thought of it, the more he realized that Nebe and the Authority wanted him to be uncomfortable… to be off guard.

He thought. He was missing something. And suddenly, the answer came to him. He drew in a deep breath as he realized the implications. Could he face what he must do next?

Nayt decided. His fingers wiggled as he did some commands of his own. Something that might even things out.

“Boy, what are you doing?”

Nayt stepped forward. “No.”

The Authority surged forward, “No? What do you mean, no? I am the Authority on this planet. You will obey me!”

Nayt said, “No. Why are you confiscating the credits of everyone when they die? During Retirement ceremonies, all of their credits are given to the church. How many have you collected this way?”

Inquisitor Nebe chuckled, shaking his head. “He thinks just like the Banker.”

The Authority shot him a look, then turned to Nayt. “It doesn’t matter, boy. Everything we do is for you and your people.”

Nayt said, “How much? Millions? The spider told me that our ancestors had millions of credits that were split amongst each of us. Was this whole religion just some bonus way of getting extra credits from us?”

The Authority puffed up his chest. He was a large, imposing figure. “We have collected a few million extra. But, this is our just due for dealing with the pain you people have caused. I was supposed to have just slept through the years, but Nebe and I are pulled out of stasis every few decades to deal with some stupid peasant like you. Last chance, boy. Take the program before I force you.”

Nayt saw movement on the other side of the courtyard. A glint off of a metal bracelet. Salazaar. No telling how long he had been waiting there.

He took a deep breath. It was all or nothing. Everything now would count on Peder, and whether his friend had forgiven him. Peder was still an ass, but Nayt was coming to realize he missed having that in his life. Missed his friend. Missed their teamwork.

Nayt turned to the Saba and again said ‘No’.

Nayt’s fingers moved, executing the second stage of his plan. He took the spell he had made for the tinkers, that let them communicate by line-of-sight, and hooked that up to his vision and hearing. He tossed it to Peder, then to Salazaar. As an afterthought, he tossed it to Captain Willis as well. Hopefully they would run it.

“I don’t think so. If you could make me obey you, you would have. I don’t like the way you run things. I think there must be another way around the problem. Just cutting off everyone’s access because you think they’ll have more children seems… wrong. I won’t obey you. I won’t be a part of this.”

The Authority looked shocked. It probably had been eons since anyone spoke to him in that way. Especially a fifteen year old boy. Nayt shrugged. He’d decided. And it felt good.

He felt vision popping in from Salazaar and then from Peder. He breathed a sigh of relief. A little later, tentatively, also from the guards-captain. This should be an untraceable connection, something the Authority couldn’t cut access to. A picture of the entire area was forming in all of their heads. Everything Peder or Salazaar could see, Nayt could see. Even if the Authority turned off their network like he just did for the rest of the town.

The specter of the Authority sighed. “So be it. Nebe, kill these idiots. I’m permanently cutting all data access to this area of the world. These five Pents are now in exile. Troops will arrive shortly. Find your way to the capitol when you’re done. Bring me the boy’s head as a memento.”

He waved, then vanished. Nayt felt most of his data access disappear. He still had the links to Peder and Salazaar and the Captain.

Nebe stood up straight, stretching his back. He shook his head, flaring the nostrils of his large nose. “I pity you all. Peasants. You have no idea how amazing the universe could have been.”

He gestured, and the Retirement Door opened. Two Servitors wheeled out, large metal monstrosities. They were no longer covered with the dark robes, and they gleamed in the bright reflected light.

Nayt and everyone else in the square felt a slight buzzing in their stomach. The danger sense. It was getting stronger.

“Guards-captain Willis, take these people prisoner, then round up the rest of the town. Retire them all.”

The captain unfastened his sword, and pulled it from his scabbard. Echoing Nayt from minutes before, he said “No”

Inquisitor Nebe sighed. “I thought you might say that. Inquisitors, override your Second Law. To protect humanity on this planet, you must kill these people. Kill or Retire everyone in this crappy town.”

The Servitors blinked, the green lights on their helmeted heads switching to red. “Acknowledged.”

Nebe gestured, and the bright spotlights from the Sept turned off.

They were in total darkness, with whirling metal monsters quickly approaching.