It should have been over in moments. The Servitors were eight feet tall, and could move at lightening speeds. They had blades and powerful sharp pieces of metal all over their bodies, perfect for cutting human bodies or breaking human bones. They could see in the dark, and could move silently.

They did not, however, have a magical sword.

Nayt’s vision was overlaid on Peder’s. Nayt had some app that allowed him to see in the dark, and it allowed him to highlight targets and make everything appear as though they were fighting in daylight. The Servitors shone as bright red targets, one moving towards Peder and the other towards Captain Willis, whom they must regard as their highest threads.

Peder’s flicked the switches that the spider had embedded into the hilt of his sword. With the first, the blade itself split in half revealing a complex series of metallic wiring that was embedded within the hollowed out blade. With the second, the sword flared with purple light as plasma charged along the diamond coated magnetic blade.

Peder lunged holding the sword in both hands, knowing that he’d need a few moments for his cold limbs to function perfectly. The Servitor was approaching him directly, extending a cutting saw out to aim straight at his chest. He met it first, and sliced through the metal of the saw as though it were a wooden twig. The Servitor stopped its forward momentum, then refocused on him. It must be reevaluating the new threat.

He gave it little time, stepping forward again and bringing the sword around in a great doublehanded swipe. The Servitor had extended a barrel from its chest from which a stinky cloud of gas was squirting. Peder’s slice cleaved straight through the giant metal body, causing sparks and flying bits of metal to shoot out. His skin burned from a cut as something smart scraped him, and he began coughing from the gas. He couldn’t breathe.

He turned, stumbling towards the second Servitor that was fighting with Captain Nellis. The guards-captain was new to having the doubled-vision, and wasn’t adapting to the fight as well as he could have. Still he was keeping the second beast at arm’s length, wildly flailing at it with a series of slashes from his iron sword. Peder couldn’t focus well, and it seemed that the captain’s sword was bent or broken.

Peder moved forward, falling in the snow. He couldn’t control his feet. His vision was swimming, and he just wanted to sleep. The gas must have been some sort of sleeping agent. He grabbed a handful of snow and rubbed his eyes with it, trying to clear his vision.

He heard a high-pitched scream and looked up. Saba Eetho had jumped on the back of the Servitor, and was kicking at it yelling for it to stop in the name of the Seven Gods. He might as well have been farting at it, Peder thought. Then he giggled. His mind was definitely having trouble keeping up. He really just wanted to sleep.

He looked up again. Saba Eetho was on the ground, red blood covering his robes. Guards-captain Willis had lost his sword, and had a major cut to his left arm. The Servitor brought back its arm, preparing to stab it through the captain’s torso. Peder tried to rise to his feet, but couldn’t make his feet move.

With a flash of red, the Servitor split on half. Another line of red, and the pieces were again cut in half. It stopped working with a shower of sparks. Nayt was standing on the other side of it, aiming his ring at the dead robot.

Peder looked up. His vision was returning. He was still rubbing snow in his face. He could feel his legs again.

Grand Inquisitor Nebe was staring at the group. He waved his arms, and all the lights turned back on, temporarily blinding Peder. If he hadn’t had snow covering his face, it would have been worse. The program Nayt was using for seeing in the dark had compensated well for the flare of lights, so even with closed eyes Peder could see the area clearly.

Nebe was standing right next to a twin of himself. Peder concentrated and realized it was the statue of the Searcher. They looked almost exactly alike. Could Nebe be the Searcher? The evil god? One of the Seven? He focused and saw that the statue of the Father looked almost exactly like the Authority. Could the Gods that they had been taught to worship just be… men? Employees? People that were hired to manage a dying world?

Peder shook his head. No time for that now.

He picked up his sword. It had gone dark when it fell in the snow. He cleaned it on his pant leg, then triggered the switches again. It flared with purple plasma. He turned to face the Inquisitor.

The man just frowned. “Put that down, boy. Don’t you understand that I am one of your Gods? Some trinket from the demon can’t hurt me.”

Nebe pulled aside his robe, and pulled out a small black object. It looked like a bent stick, with a metal circle on the front. He aimed it at Peder.

Nayt was kneeling by Saba Eetho and the Guards-captain. Both were heavily injured. Eetho was coughing blood, spluttering and breathing hard.

Salazaar stepped up next to Peder. He held out both hands. He was wearing gloves over both of them, and had a gleaming bracelet on his wrist. His hands appeared encased in metal.

Salazaar nodded to him. “Good to see you, Brother. Good job on… stalling.”

Peder nodded. “What should we do?”

Salazaar said “He’s probably right. Your sword might not hurt him. But this might. Cover your eyes.”

Salazaar aimed his hands, then an arc of lightening shot forward. It landed in the puddle of water and snow that the Inquisitor was standing in. He hooted, screamed and crumpled to the ground. Peder smelled burning hair.

Silence.

They looked around. The area was a mess. Smoking remains of the two robots were scattered around the ground. The second was still moving, inching it’s way forward. Eetho and the Captain were bleeding on the ground. The statue of the Banker had been chopped in half, presumably from Nayt’s laser ring. It was a mess.

Peder turned to Salazaar and Nayt. “No problem. No one can stop…”

Salazaar shouted “Peder!” and jumped in front of him.

A thunk sounded, and a red circle formed in Salazaar’s chest. He looked down to see a metal spike from one of the Servitor’s arms sticking through his brother’s chest.

Peder screamed, and chopped at the robot behind his brother. It had inched forward and raised an arm, which shot out a metal prong. When he finished screaming, both robots were a pile of metal parts lying strewn across the ground. Nothing moved.

He turned to Salazaar, who was gurgling and sucking down air.

“Peder!” Nayt shouted, “Into the Sept. The Stasis room. It will slow down the wounds and give us time to find something to save him.”

Nayt and the guards-captain helped Eetho stand. Peder reached down and picked up Salazaar, who was gasping in pain and bleeding profusely. Their brother looked very close to death. He followed Nayt to the metal Retirement Door in the Sept. It was closed.

Nayt pointed his hand and sliced a man-sized hole in the doorway. Peder kicked, and it crashed forward into the room.

They ducked inside, carrying their bleeding wounded. They didn’t notice that Inquisitor Nebe was waking up outside.