Fiona was starving. She could eat a horse. She trudged through the snow, and scampered towards the frozen Harper river. She had eaten everything she had on her, the spices that Nayt had given her and a piece of jerky that was in her backpack. She wished she had time to roast one of the rabbits, but knew Nayt needed her help. 

Over the shared datavision, she watched the conversation. Watched the appearance of the Authority, and the beginning of the explanation that everyone was awakening around them.

The stones. The stones had caused all the awakenings. All the deaths. She recognized most of the people in the square as the people that she’d put the stones in their houses. As she ran, she looked into the data view of towns around them. Every place that she’d placed one of the spider’s stones had grown into large black spots around the stone walls. Every home with a black spot had someone awakened in them. It was all her fault. The spider had tricked her.

The video connection to Nayt disappeared. The frozen river was just ahead of her, just where she’d crossed it this morning. She took a quick breather.

She tried to view the central town square in the data feed, and got an error that no network could be found. Same when she tried to visit the crystal cave. Or pull up the app store. Nothing. She was completely cut off from all of the information that she’d grown accustomed to. No map, no lookups, no crystal cave. She felt lonely, and naked. She still had the apps that she’d bought, and still had her bow. It would have to do.

She saw that before the connection dropped, Nayt had send a massive message from his secret account on the rebel message boards. It looked to contain all of the videos from his initial discussion with the Green Demon, talking with the Authority, and a copy of everything he knew about the spider. It also had a program that he’d copied from one of the spider’s rocks which should be able to awaken anybody the user touched. It was a treasure trove of information, and he’d just sent it to the entire resistance organization.

He was such a hero. And he needed her. She took a deep breath, then trudged out to the river, following her tracks in the snow back the way she’d come hours ago. Her tracks. Then why were did they look so wrong?

She jumped behind one of the trees before stepping out onto the frozen river. Something was wrong here. It was lucky that she took that break, or she would have charged right by. The tracks of hers looked too wide, and the snow above them was pushed down in a way that shouldn’t happen with someone as light as her. Someone else had followed her tracks, stepping inside her footprints. Someone heavy.

She scanned around, missing that her map worked. She had become too reliant on it for showing if anyone was near. She pulled out her bow, and knocked an arrow. The area was too quiet. Normally, she’d here some chirping of snow birds, some skittering of animals. Nothing. Her trailers were still nearby.

She waited, scanning the area. She really wanted to just run across the river, to charge towards town to help Nayt.

Nothing. Nothing. Something? Something.

Two men were walking up from the South, following her path exactly. It was hard to make them out in the dark, but she they stood out against the snow. She pulled back her bow, preparing to take down these two that were training her.

A sudden cold touched her neck. A voice whispered in her ear. “Now, now, girl. We wouldn’t anyone to get hurt.” Glancing down, she saw a white-gloved hand holding a large knife right under her chin. A man had snuck up behind her.

She lowered her bow and showed her empty hands.

The man lowered his knife, then signed to his companions. They came up behind her, each carrying a metal sword. So much metal.

Looking them over in the dark, Fiona thought they had other metal and manufactured items on them. Metal knives. A metal wrist watch. Turning, she saw the man behind her had a metal bracelet identical to hers.

He smiled. “Yes, it looks like we shop at the same store. Nice bracelet.”

“You know the spider?”

“We know what the spider really is, yes. We have another version of him up in the North. But, let me introduce myself. I’m Michure from the Iron Lands. And you are Fiona the outlaw. We’re big fans of your work.”

“You were following me.”

“For a while, until we saw the events happening in town and came back. Imagine our surprise when you almost ran over us a bit ago. No indicaiton on the map, and suddenly you come charging by when Jarl here was taking a leak. You must have though he was a tree.”

Fiona shook her head. Could she have been that preoccupied? She was relying on the map way too much if so. Losing her hunting edge.

“We don’t have much time, girl. We just wanted you to know that you have allies here. We’ll be watching what happens. And, we have something for you. A trade, if you will.“

“Trade for what?”

“For your future friendship, of course. After this is all over, we’re going to be back to talk to you. Not for a few months. But, when we do, we’ll find you and ask for that favor. But for now, I think you could use these.”

He handed over two small cubes of metal. They each had a tiny red light on one side.

“They’re called grenades. They stick to metal. You twist the red button then pull it off. Throw it, and it sticks to anything metal nearby. When it does, it explodes. Easy. But, make sure you’re far away first. Got it?”

She nodded. “There’s no metal in town.”

“Oh, there will be soon. We’ve been fighting the Authority for years. He’ll be sending in troops. Trust me, you’ll be needing these.”

They left, disappearing back into the snow, silent as ghosts.

She made it to the orange line in the snow that marked the boundary of the town. She was still a wanted fugitive. If her face was seen inside the town premises, alarms would sound. The Saba would know she was here. But maybe the network disconnection might stop that. She had to try. Still, she covered her face with her white jacket facemask. Just in case. Tentatively, she took one small step over the line. Nothing happened. She always hated stepping back into a town’s limits, especially here. She’d snuck in a few times previously, but always at night, and always heavily masked. Always waiting for an alarm to sound. Another step, and still nothing.

More confidently, she took a few more steps. She lowered her face mask. Still no alarm. She was back home. Face on display. No alarms. A tear came to her eye and she admitted to herself how much she missed her hometown.

No time for that now. Nayt needed her. She ran towards the square, stomach growling.

As she passed by the docks, she saw the lights up the street by the Sept go dark. By the time she made it to the central square by the Sept, everything was very quiet. She entered the deserted area, huffing and puffing from the constant exertion. She was so hot from running, and starving. She ate a few handfuls of snow to help cool herself down and rehydrate.

The square was empty. She couldn’t contact anyone online. Still no network. Walking around the area, she saw blood in the snow, and chopped up pieces of metal everywhere close to the Sept. Did the new High Saba kill someone? Take them into the Sept? She walked around, huffing and puffing from the strain in her aching legs. 

Crossing the street, she banged on the door to the Inn. Maybe they would have some food, some hot soup. Her stomach growled. She needed a moment to think. She collapsed in the doorway, trying to recover her breathing.

She blamed her heavy breathing and reliance on the dataview for missing the sound. She had been using the online map so much that she forgot how to listen without it.

She saw a form rise on it’s arms, then stand by the door of the Sept. It gestured, and bright lights again turned on in the square. The Inquisitor. Nebe. He was there, apparently injured. He looked up at the sky, and Fiona realized the humming sound she had heard was getting louder.

Two metal objects descended from the sky. Birds. They glinted from the light, and gracefully swept down to land close to Nebe.

They were two large men, made completely out of metal with wide golden wings. Suits of armor, like the ones that Peder wore in the online crystal caves. They looked magnificent.

She wiggled over behind a pile of snow, zipping up her jacket and face mask. She knew that bodies gave off heat, and that if you had the right apps, you could set your view to see the reds of warm bodies. She had learned from hunting in winter that piles of snow blocked this head pretty well. These giant soldiers looked like they would have those types of apps.

She watched, clutching her bow. She was pretty sure that it wouldn’t do much damage against metal armor like that. And, they were carrying large black sticks that looked dangerous.

The soldiers began talking animatedly at Nebe. He gestured, then pointed into the Sept, and back at the town. Fiona didn’t have any apps that would help her hear from a distance, and didn’t dare get any closer to hear what they were saying.

As she stared, both soldiers stretched their arms up into the sky. Their bodies rippled, and then split down the sides. Their wings fell to the ground. The front half of their armor stepped forward, and then the back half stepped backwards. This repeated twice for each soldier. When it was over, Fiona was shocked to see that both of the soldiers were now surrounded by four robots each. Each robot seemed very thin, little more than a skeleton. But it moved, and looked around, and had sharp edges that could do damage. The suits had been both for protection as well as being additional ‘soldiers’.

The Saba continued speaking to the two men. Fiona could see that they now looked more human. They looked like men, though tall, and wearing black uniforms like his. Each had four robots that followed them in a circle. In less than a minute, Fiona had gone from one enemy to having to deal with three men and eight robots. It was hopeless.

Fiona cursed. What could she do? She had her bracelet and her cloak that should help keep her hidden. Her friends were either captured or safe. She couldn’t do anything now for them. She could probably get off two shots before the troops found her, but that would be suicide. She had the special pouches that the Spider had given her and the new grenades from the Northerners, but wasn’t sure either of those would help.

“Ahem. Miss Fiona, I hate to intrude.”

She almost peed herself in fright. A small glowing spider was in the snow next to her. Or, she corrected herself, an image of it was being shown. But how? The dataview wasn’t working. How could it be appearing in her vision?

“Thank you for placing those stones for us. As you might have guessed, we used them to help awaken your people. To help give them access. But, they also allow us to communicate without the data layer. Each one is in line with another, and we can use them to talk. Hundreds of them now that give us communications all over this town and down to many of the Pents and Cents in the South. I mention this so that you know if you move too far away, I won’t be able to help you.”

Fiona was outraged, “Help me? You’ve used me this entire time! Used all of us!”

The image of the spider shook its head, “I haven’t lied to anyone. You were paid for your efforts. I hired you. There is a big difference. We don’t have much time to argue. Your friends are in the Sept, and those troops will likely attack them. I do, however, have a suggestion for how to solve the current problem.”

FIona was wary. But, she had to admit, she had little choice right now. Another of the spiders tricks.

“What do you care? It seems all you want is fighting.”

The spider drew back. It looked as insulted as a metal spider robot hologram possibly could. “Miss Fiona. I want customers. I want people to buy and sell. My only purpose is to be an economics engine. The more people alive that trade with me, the better. If those troops find your friends, they will Retire the entire town and I will lose my customers. I am on your side. I want to help you. I want you to win.” 

Fiona shrugged. Whatever it said, she knew she needed it. And it needed her. It probably needed her more than she needed it. She could turn around and leave at any time.

At least she could get a little revenge for how it had tricked her. “OK, spider. Here’s the deal. I’ll do what you want, but you pay us a thousand credits. Split evenly between Nayt, Peder, and I. I know you have access to that. I helped you build your factories after all. Those troops are starting to spread out, so you don’t have much time. Deal?”

They negotiated quickly, then settled on 200 credits to each of the three friends. The spider glared. “Deal, Miss Fiona. If this is successful, I will transfer those credits to your account.”

The spider then told her its plan. It brought up a picture of the square, showing the locations of all of the spreading troops, and detailing where they would attack, and how. She was shocked, delighted, scared, and angry. But, when she thought about it, she finally agreed. The plan just might work.