Willis stared. It was like a scene out of a dream. Or a nightmare.

He felt like a bug, trapped under a glass in some crazy garden.

He turned and waved to Peder and Nayt, who stood at the back end of the rectangular room. They had their magic weapons ready, prepared to deal with trouble.

He stepped forward into the giant room, carrying the other two bleeding men.

Underneath them was a magnificent building, hundreds of strides high and wide. It was angular, and made entirely out of glass reinforced with a latticework of metal. He had never seen anything like it before. Completely beyond his experience. It looked like a bird’s wing, buried into the earth beneath the Sept.

A bird’s wing, if the bird was made of glass and was the size of a mountain. It must be the size of the entire Pent. It was resting on the ground of a massive cavern, with lights shining from all over the ceiling. The ground was covered with green grass and trees, and looked like a painting of a peaceful country side. It felt completely unreal, but explained so much.

He’s was looking down on it from above. Nayt had explained that there was a yellow glowing line in the air, and beneath that line was some sort of stasis field. The wing-shaped building was in the field, and surrounded by people.

He recognized many of them, and kept straining to see the ones he wanted. The floor sloped down into the stasis area, and was wide enough that about ten people could walk into it side-by-side. There was a big group of thirteen people in a clump that looked to have just stepped in, and a steady line of people in front of them, walking towards the building. They were being ushered along by large metal Servitor robots.

Many years ago, when Willis was a boy, he’d poured hot wax down an anthill. Later, when it had cooled, he and some friends had used water to wash away all of the dirt. The tunnels of the ants were fascinating to see, much more complex and beautiful that he would have imagined. The ants were caught in the transparent wax, and were frozen in the act of climbing up and down their tunnels when they were frozen. A little like this.

He could tell from the rear that all of these were his people. The townspeople that he had known, and ultimately had sent into Retirement. They were standing totally still, caught in the act of walking forward. They looked frozen, but Peder had explained that time just moved very very slowly when in that field. That he had been caught in one for three days, and it had only seemed like three seconds to him.

From the back, he recognized the closest woman, the cook from the Inn. She’d been sentenced to Retirement just last night.

The Authority had been right. People weren’t being killed, just being saved inside for later. Trapped in amber, like old insects frozen in time.

A hacking cough next to him reminded him that he had two very injured people that needed help. Nayt had thought that they would be safer inside the stasis, where the Authority had mentioned medical aid.

The cough had alerted one of the large Servitor robots from within the amber field. Saba Eetho was having trouble breathing, and Salazaar was barely conscious and fading quickly.

The robot turned, then moved towards them, seeming to fly by the frozen people. Willis got ready to defend himself, not sure if these robots would also attack. He saw Nayt and Peder behind him prepare their weapons.

The robot stepped out of the field. It had a green glow around it, which turned off as soon as it was out of the field.

It spoke in a metallic, emotionless voice. “Unauthorized presence. Do you need assistance?”

“Yes, these people are hurt. Can you heal them?”

“Negative. Healing is in medical bay two. Critical attention required.”

It turned and flashed a bright red light. Two other robots turned at the light, then quickly walked up to the first. Wordlessly, one of the Servitors picked up Salazaar and the other picked up Saba Eetho, and carried them into the stasis field. Both robots also glowed green.

Willis braced himself for when they entered the glowing field. As soon as the two men were fully inside the line of light, they seemed to freeze. The robots kept moving, and quickly carried them down the path towards the giant glass building.

Willis felt the room grow noticeably warmer when the two entered the stasis field. Some sort of heat transfer?

Turning, Willis saw that Nayt and Peder were both silently crying. It had been an emotional day, and they must be relieved that their brother might survive.

The original Servitor was standing in front of him, and spoke. “Malfunction. Data Access unavailable. Orders?”

Nayt cleared his throat, then spoke from the back of the room. “Robot, how many people are in the stasis field below?”

“33, 965.” The number popped up on their vision as well.

The three all turned and stared at each other. So many people. That was as many people as lived in the entire world. That building was huge, but to hold that many?

“They all fit inside that building? And, data layers work here?”

“The Storage Structure is built to hold 40,000 humans and organic creatures. There are twenty floors. All systems are operating within capacity. Facility will be operational for retrieval and docking. Data connection is disconnected outside, but functional inside stasis field.”

“What does Docking mean?”

“When the star liner returns in two hundred years, the Storage Structure will be lifted into orbit and dock, along with all of the other Storage Structures across the world. Everything is operating within parameters.” The robot seemed to be getting annoyed with answering so many questions.

“Nayt, Peder. I’m going in.”

“What? But, Captain?”

 “Peder, go. Deal with the Saba. Tell Gretchen she’s in charge of the Towns-guard, and not to come get me. I want to see my family, and need to make sure these two need help. Now, go.”

He put a hand on each of their shoulders. “I’m proud of both of you. I’ve known both of your fathers, and know that they would be proud as well. Now, go clean up this mess you’ve started. And I guess I’ll see you sometime in the next two hundred years.”

Without waiting for an answer, Guards-captain Willis plunged into the amber light, into the stasis field. He felt no different, other than a brief tingle. As soon as he did, the world jerked into motion. He saw the group ahead of him, and waved his hellos. They turned to stare, and someone laughed and said ‘They got you, too, Captain?”

He just nodded, and turned to run down the bath towards the building. As he moved, he felt that brief flashes move by him, up and down the path. Must be the robots, that could somehow function at normal speed inside the field. As he watched, a boy from in front of him disappeared. It looked like one of the robots had moved him somewhere else.

It seemed to be a beautiful day, warm, sunny, and peaceful. He knew that the sky was just an illusion, lights from above the stasis field that made it look like a bright sky. Images and data was popping up on his vision, with thousands of overwhelming numbers and graphics appearing in front of him. A voice asked him if he wanted assistance with his data connection, and he soon convinced it to hide everything from his sight. He could deal with that later.

He soon arrived at the base of the giant glass building. It was huge, and towered above him. From below, it was the biggest thing he’d ever seen. Like a glass mountain, with movement inside. The main doors were large, and he entered into them. Groups of people were standing inside, chatting and drinking refreshments. Tables of food were set out along each walls, and as people picked up plates and poured drinks, food magically reappeared onto the tables. The robots must be replacing things, mooving at their much faster rate.

Inside the building, Willis gawked at the massive scene of chaos. It looked like an army of people milling about. A walkway rimmed the first floor, and he looked down upon a wide open basement area that had thousands of people moving about, talking, and laughing. Visualizations of data floated in the air, and it looked like a number of classes were in session. Hundred os kids sat quietly, or gestured at numbers and words floating around them in small groups. He looked, but could see his daughter no where.

To the right, a bank of glass boxes moved up and down, and people stepped on and off them at every level. Looking up, he was overcome by a sudden sense of vertigo. There were more people on every floor going up into the sky. His hometown (which was way above his head, he reminded himself) had only had two-story buildings. How amazed they would be to find out they were living above a twenty-story building deep underground.

As he looked at one of these moving boxes, he bumped into a man that was stepping out.

“Oh, excuse me. Ah, I see you’re brand new. Welcome… ah, Mr. Willis!”

“Um, thanks.”

“My name is Villhelm. I’m sure you’ll get the hang of using the data displays soon. I see that I’m actually one of your great-cousins, from about 300 years before you.”

Willis suddenly felt like a little kid again. Waking up this morning, he’d had no idea that by dinnertime he’d go from captain of a large Pent’s guard force, to new recruit in some alien fantasy.

Villhelm laughed. “Don’t worry about it. You’ll figure it all out. Most of us are related somehow. Anyway, I’m sure you’re in a hurry to find someone special. I sure was when I arrived. CAn I help you locate someone?”

“Yes, my wife…”

“Yes, I see. Sheila. Floor 3, Room 6. Looks like she’s there now. Let me walk you there.”

They climbed onto the moving box, which Villhelm said was called an elevator. Willis gripped the rails tightly as they rode up into the sky. He almost vomited at the sensation, but was too struck by the weirdness of everything.

Villhelm was quiet on the brief ride, and walked him across a walkway to a large bay on the left. It opened into a big room of about a hundred bunk beds that were tightly packed in. Sitting on one was a set of women that were familiar to him.

He peered forward, then gasped when he saw whom he was looking for. His daughter, about fifteen feet ahead. He hadn’t seen her at first, as she was standing to the side of the bed. A woman was standing over her, checking a bandage on her head. His wife, with her mother sitting behind her. The two older women looked the exact same age, and hadn’t changed at all from the way he remembered them. His heart caught in his throat. His family. Not dead.

They turned, and his daughter burst out crying. “Daddy!”

He ran to her, tears streaming from his face. Twenty years. He’d thought she was dead for twenty years. And she still recognized him. He must be an old man to her now.

He scooped her up and gave her a monstrous hug. Sheila walked up and wrapped her arms around them both.

She was crying as well and smiling at the same time.

She rested her head in the crook of his neck, just like she always had. To her, she’d probably seen him yesterday. To him, it had been years. Tears flowed freely down his cheeks.

His daughter was jumping up and down in his arms, telling him all about her adventure. About the doctors downstairs, and how one had given her something called a lollipop when she came out of a machine that put slimy creme on her head, and how she missed him, and why hadn’t he come in to tell her good night stories for the past month. And how the doctors said mommy would get better soon and isn’t going to be sick anymore. He just hugged them both as hard as he could.

Sheila squeezed his hand and whispered in his ear, “Welcome home.”