Peder was walking ahead of him and suddenly stopped, crouching low. Nayt stopped behind him, bringing up his ring in and offensive gesture. Through their linked vision, he could see everything Peder did. A shadow had fallen against the wall of the tunnel above them. They’d walked up the long sloping passageway that led to the stasis cavern below. Someone was in the Retirement room above them. Someone moving in front of one of the large candle holders in the room.

Peder suddenly charged into the room, jumping in a dive, and rolling along the floor. From his vantage point below, Nayt saw a glowing blade swing out, and narrowly miss his friend. Peder must have been able to pick up what Nayt had seen, for he changed his roll to come up sword first, and chopped to the left.

A robot arm fell to the ground, followed soon by a dismembered robot head. Nayt watched it roll by, spiraling down the tunnel next to him. This head was unlike those of the Servitors, much flatter and less defined.

Peder had seen two more robots in the room, and Nayt used this information to set targets for his ring. He moved forward, then shot off two blasts from the lazer, cutting through the torso of one robot and knocking a burning hole in the chest of another. His ring beeped to indicate that it needed a minute to recharge, and he wisely ducked back out of the way. He still kept his head out so that he could see the room and possibly use that to help Peder see.

It was good that he kept in view. Peder was fighting two opponents. One was a man that had two small swords, both glowing with light just like Peder’s large blade. The other was another of the thin robots, but this one seemed intent only on distracting Peder and keeping him away from the black-clothed human. Peder thrust, and skewered the robot through the chest, which erupted in sparks.

The robot managed to reach out with it’s hands and grasp onto Peder’s arm. He was trapped, trying to yank the dead robot off of his blade. It had caught him in a death grip.

The man in black smiled a toothy grin. As always in periods of high emotion, Nayt’s mind became very analytical. He noticed that the man was tall, well muscled, and had perfect teeth. Nayt had never seen a set of teeth that were so white and straight. Most older men in his village were missing at least some of their teeth, and the others were dark.

The man struck out at Peder with his two blades, but Peder pivoted to keep the robot between them. He kept yanking to try to remove the sword, but to no avail. He was stuck.

The man saw that Peder couldn’t get his sword free, and laughed. He swung out with his left sword, and cut the legs out from the robot between them. The top of the robot fell over, pulling Peder down with its weight. Peder toppled forward, still being clutched by metal arms. He stumbled, and collapsed in a pile at the man’s feet, turned towards the door.

The soldier raised both swords, getting ready to stab into Peder and kill him.

Nayt saw all of this through both his eyes and Peder’s. He knew he only had a second to act. He sprung forward and grabbed one of the large candle holders that in the corner. It was a large metal bar, about five feet tall. With both hands, he slammed it into the back of the head of the soldier, who crumpled to the ground.

Nayt rushed to Peder’s aid, and used his recharged ring to cut of the robot’s hands and free his friend. Peder gasped, and finally got his sword free.

They checked the soldier and pulled away the two swords, then wrapped him with strips from his black cloak. He had a massive purple bump on the back of his head, and didn’t look like he’d be awaking any time soon. Just to be safe, they tied his hands to his feet.

Cold was emanating from the door, and they could see bright light from outside. Inquisitor Nebe was no longer on the ground, so must have recovered. If so, he definitely would have seen the flashes of light and heard their noise from the fight. 

The tow conferred briefly over their linked data displays. What should they do, run outside? There would likely be more soldiers.

“OK, boys. It’s over. Come out of there now. The fight’s over. We have someone you should see.”

A voice they both recognized called out. “Nayt? Peder?”

Fiona. Crap. Nayt had thought she was safely away, outside of the vengeful grasp of Nebe. She must have come back, or been captured by the soldiers.

Peder peeked his head outside the door, and saw that she was being held by two robots in the middle of the courtyard. Both had knives out, held close to her throat. Her bow as nowhere to be seen, but wouldn’t have done her any good anyway. He ducked back in.

“You see that?”

“Yeah.”

“What are we going to do?”

“You’re the guardsman. What can we do?”

“I think we have to surrender. Otherwise they’ll kill her.”

“Damn it. I was afraid of that.”

Inquisitor Nebe called in. “Last chance. Walk out, or she’s killed, and then we toss in an explosive and kill you both. Alternatively, you get thrown in Retirement. Choose now.”

Nayt stepped out of the room, hands above his head. “OK, you win.”

“Take off the ring. Toss it over into that snow drift.”

Nayt did so. It was still hot enough that when it landed in the snow, he could see it in infrared. It steamed, and melted deep into the colder ice where it would take a while to find it. He’d likely never see it again.

Peder walked out behind him. He’d left his sword in the room, and was carrying one of the soldier’s glowing swords.

“Now, your turn Peder. Throw your sword on the ground.”

Peder did so, and tossed the sword down between them.

Nebe pointed a black stick at the sword and a sharp crack sounded. Looking down, they saw the word broken in half and melting on the ground in front of them. They both covered their ears at the shock, then stared at the man in horror. That had ben a fortune of metal. Luckily, it wasn’t Peder’s sword that was destroyed.

Nebe gestured them forward. “You surprised me earlier, but not again. Try anything funny, and I shoot you next. Now, go stand with Fiona. Say your goodbyes. Soldier, take them under for Retirement, then round up the rest of this village.”

Looking out, Nayt saw two broken robots on the ground. They had arrows right through a small red box on their chest. Fiona must have shot them. Such a perfect shot. But how had she known where to aim for? Was someone helping her?

Nayt blinked. Another viewpoint had just popped up in his vision. Fiona’s. She must have taken a copy of the app he’d uploaded to the message boards and installed it. She could now see what Peder and he saw, and vice versa. She looked down at her hands, and Nayt saw she was carrying two small black boxes. She also had a cloth bag on her belt that seemed to be moving.

Words appeared over his vision. They said Get ready to duck.

Oh no. What was she planning?

Everything happened in a blur. Pops of sound from above, and the floodlights went dark. Nayt glanced up and saw the brief outline of a small spider and then a flare of light. Then pure darkness.

He had his thermal app still running from before, and so instantly could see everyone around him. If he could see them, so could his friends. Like before, Nayt mentally marked the targets of the metal soldiers, the human soldier, and Inquisitor Nebe.

He saw fiona do something with the boxes to the two robots holding her. It was quick, and two bright explosions pop popped. Nayt saw with amazement that the robots had fallen over, and seemed to be burning with heat. Fiona tossed the bag from her belt towards the other soldier, and ran into the Retirement door.

Nayt saw the bag open in his infrared view, and a warm outline of a small robot spider was within. It curled in air and landed on the soldier’s leg, then zapped with a shock. The man fell to the ground, stunned.

Peder and Nayt jumped after her, and soon all three of them were back into the Sept.

Nebe shouted, and fired that deadly stick into the darkness. They hear zing ing shots ring out, but no one was hurt.

Glancing back, Nayt saw Nebe running behind them, chasing them into the Sept.

It was over in seconds.

They entered the room, and Peder grabbed his sword from where he’d left it propped by the door. Once the others were inside, he turned towards the door. Nebe ran into the room right behind them, and then gulped and slammed into Peder.

In the grisly candle-lit scene, Nayt saw hot red blood shoot out form the side of Nebe’s body. He gasped, then stared at Peder.

Peder looked at him in shock, then pushed the man back from his sword. Nebe fell, spluttering blood. He looked up, staring at them.

“You… killed one of your Gods? Forbidden… “

He ended the last with a whisper, and wheezed. The amount of blood spurting from the man made it clear that he was either dead or soon would be

Nayt had never seen someone die, never up close. It was ghastly, and he was shocked at the intense smells. Peder’s sword had caught the man in the gut and through his chest. He’d had thick armor on under his cloak, but it wasn’t strong enough to stop Peder’s spider-honed sword.

They quickly carried Nebe down the ramp to the Stasis facility below the Sept. They called to one of the Servitors, and asked him to heal the man. The Servitor pronounced him “deceased”, but nonetheless called another robot to take him to the medical bay. Nayt doubted they’d ever see the evil god again.

Before they left, Nayt had one last idea. One last present for Fiona on her birthday.