Fiona ran through the woods, one word echoing in her head.

Alive. She felt so alive.

Most of the snow had melted, and she was out hunting. In her woods. Back where she had originally learned hunting and tracking from her brother Leo.

Sunlight streamed through the tall elm trees, patterning the forrest floor.

After jogging through the trees for a while, she raised her to indicate silence.

The young hunters behind her instantly froze, and ducked into the bush. Little Jon stepped on a twig, then made such an embarrassed grimace that she and her hunting partner had to keep from laughing out loud. Had she ever been that hopeless?

She gestured to the side, and a data display synced among her team. Everyone’s views were coordinated, linked together. Her partner saw the bugbear in the distance, behind a bush that blocked it from her sight. Perfect. She angled herself and slowly crept down wind from it, turning so that she’d have a perfect shot. She could have hit it from much farther away, but that would not have served well to reinforce the lesson to her team.

She closed in, then went down on one knee for the extra stability. She pulled back her bow, took a deep breath, then let it out. It was always best to fire after you breathed so that your shot was more steady.

She let fly the arrow, and it stuck perfectly, bringing down the bugbear. Seconds later, a volley of arrows from the others also tore into the beast. She stepped forward and finished it off with her metal knife. Everyone clapped and cheered, and she called the group together and explained the process again to reinforce the skills to the younger hunters. They stared at her in awe and worship. Fiona the slayer.

When class was over, she dismissed the kids and sent them back into town. Kids. Ha. Most of them were older than her.

Including her brother, Leo. Or, was he younger now? She couldn’t quite keep track of it.

Nayt had rescued him from below the Sept. Her second Birthday present, he’d called it. She had cried when the Servitor had carried him up, and then hugged Leo fiercely when he was brought out of the Stasis field. He had been inside, walking towards a giant glass building. He later said he’d seen their father who had briefly said they took her mother in the doctor’s area.

Fiona cried, and hugged him. But to Leo, he’d only been gone for a few minutes. For her, it had almost been a year. They were now, technically, the same age. Or, she was a day older since he’d gone into stasis on his birthday, then been pulled out the day after hers.

Her big brother had become her little brother.

They now hunted every day, and taught a new hunting class each week. With so many people coming out of stasis, they needed a lot more meat, and so needed more hunters. She loved it. Loved having him back in her life.

She’d told him about the crystal cave and all of her other adventures. Their entire relationship had flipped, and he now looked up to her as the strong and brave older sibling. She was now stronger than him, and was getting taller, and with her apps and stealth programs, could out-hunt him.

He wasn’t too happy about that last point.

They hurried back to town. Nayt had had his big meeting with the Authority today. Since data access hand’t been turned on, they obviously didn’t get all of their demands met. As expected.

She caught up with him outside the Sept. No one lived in it now, though many in town were suggesting they elect a mayor to run the place. All the Saba were either gone, or killed. Sitta Aimee had come back to town, but had never been fully trained in her powers. And, without data access, she just kept teaching school classes like she always had. She decided to stay in a room at the inn, knowing how upset some of the townsfolk now were against the priesthood.

Nayt met up with her and grabbed her hand. Leo looked at them briefly, frowning. Then shrugged. They weren’t really dating, but she found every chance she could to spend time close to Nayt, and he did the same.

“The Authority didn’t give us back data access, did he?”

“Not quite. He said he’d make a deal. We can provisionally get it back if we control our population and stopping taking people out of the Sept. No more births for two years. And, no more kidnapping of his soldiers. He’ll reevaluate after a decade to see if we’re still peaceful. I think we can convince him to allow us back sooner. And, we always have the Spider’s backup network.”

Peder, Nayt, and others had taken a dozen of his soldiers prisoner since the winter. The soldiers didn’t realize that Nayt, Peder, and Fiona had a backup network and could always locate them. The three would find some way to capture them, disable them, then tied them up and stick them on a boat downriver. Without the data access that they’d trained with their entire lives, most of the soldiers were pretty easy to find and defeat. At least no one had yet been killed, like had happened in the Iron Lands to the North.

“Well, if they keep coming and giving us their nice metal swords…”

“Oh, and we won’t be allowed to host the Spring Festival this year. It’s going to be in Sundial to the South. We’re allowed to send a group to attend, but any slip-ups will mean war. He said if anyone else is awakened, then all deal are off and he sends in the explosives. I don’t think he’s kidding. And, of course they would appreciate if we brought a few shiploads of the supplies that we were going to use in our festival… as a peace offering to help get Sundial ready on short notice.”

Fiona nodded. They could deal with that. She had argued against having anything to do with the festival next month, but Nayt had convinced her it would be a good way to show their peaceful intentions. Sundial was a two day boat ride down river. Should be perfectly safe.

They washed, then met for dinner at her new place. She had bought it for a bargain, and loved having Nayt over to dine with her and Leo. The servants had put together a delicious meal of venison from the bugbear that she’d shot today, along with fresh broccoli, spinach, bulberries, and celery from her new farm lands. She’d never really paid much attention to farming as a kid, even though she’d lived right on the border of the Farmer Bauer’s land. Now, it was her land, and so she was learning how to run it.

She had bought it at a bargain from Zeke Bauer.

Zeke had wound up going completely bankrupt last month. Somehow, he’d completely mismanaged all of his father’s lands, and could no longer pay for the 200 farm hands that were working the land. With the collapse of the Sabaa-run money system, he could not get money out of his accounts, either. He had been chased out of town by an angry mob, and rode a horse down towards the South. Presumably to find his father and ask for help.

Fiona had graciously stepped in to buy the place for credits, and promptly paid everyone for their work and given them a healthy bonus. She’d fired six of the farm hands that had always taunted her and called her names as a kid. No one called her names now, other than Fiona the Slayer or Ma’am.

Peder and Jayna also stopped by for the evening. He was the town’s hero again. Godslayer, they were calling him, though he was always the religious type and hated the name. He and Nayt had explained to everyone what had happened, had shown videos, but still some people had trouble abandoning the old religion.

It would come in time.

For now, Fiona and her friends had a wonderful feast in their beautiful new home. She and Leo smiled at each other, and Nayt held her hand under the table.

It would be an exciting new year.