Nayt woke and groaned. He didn’t want to get out of bed. Light was pouring in from his window, and he thought he heard birds chirping outside. Stupid cheerful, annoying birds. With a wiggle of his little finger, he turned up the sound on one of the windows that were floating in his vision. No one else could see them, but he had one almost constantly showing a “Movie”.

The movies were amazing, and Nayt had been playing them almost non-stop for the last month. There were so many, and on almost any topic he could image. He had started out watching movies on how to make things, like building tables and chairs. Then moved on to stranger things, where people moved around in giant metal wagons or through the sky in even larger metal wagons to do weird things. H e couldn’t follow the point of most of them, but they were fascinating to watch and very entertaining during the dull periods of cutting leather and sanding wood.

He groaned, and turned on the straw mattress. Even the movies had lost their fun. Nayt paused the one he was watching, then waved it away in disgust. 

He pulled the blanket up over his head to block out the light, but that just exposed his toes to the cool breeze. The large window he installed last week was supposed to have a wooden shutter that he could lock from the inside, but it had fallen off the hook in the middle of the night, and the entire thing had swung open. Bugs were already getting in.

He wanted to scream, to punch the window. But that would require him to get out of bed. And if he got out of bed, he would have to get dressed and go to work, and face Missus Peyton. His real mother. His real mother that he was now in complete debt to.

Just thinking about it made his ears burn in shame, and he rolled the blanket in a ball over his head. He had thought everything would be so easy, so simple. He would become a Master Builder, get rich, and everyone would love him for how smart he was. It somehow went all wrong. Even with magical powers and answers to anything, he was still a failure.

His stomach groaned. He was starving. He thought back to when he last ate. He had breakfast yesterday, right? Maybe it was the day before.

His mother was no help. She was upset at him as well. He borrowed 4 crowns from her to pay for materials and now she was late on their rent. She had asked him not to waste the money on installing a new window, but he had complained to her that he needed better light to think and design at night. She had been working double shifts at the stables because of him and had not had time to fix any food. He felt like such an ass.

It was finally the shame of failing both of his mothers that got him out of bed. He dressed and pulled up his map to check on Peder. Of course, Peder was still asleep on the other side of town. Peder had taken to his new life as a guardsman, working late hours, training and exercising all day, then going drinking all night. Nayt had tagged along once, but been embarrassed by how much all the drinks had cost. And later ashamed even further when he drank too much and threw up in front of everyone at the Inn.

Nayt ran a wooden comb through his hair and tied the leather throng of his kris-tooth around his wrist. He didn’t go anywhere without it now.

Nayt walked to the bakery, stopping in to say hi to Jayna. She was barely speaking to him, angry at how moody he was lately. The old wooden bakery was already sweltering, and the steam and heat from the furnaces and ovens made in nearly unbearable. She finally relented and gave him a kiss and a box of creme puff pastries.

He didn’t want to go to work. It was nearly 10 in the morning. Now that he was a man, there were no rules for when work started and ended, and he could work whatever hours he chose. And he had been working a lot of hours lately.

Nayt sat on the edge of the dock to the south of town, watching the river flow by. He pulled up his visual display and toggled on a graph of his finances. He hated that dart, but there was no ignoring it. He was in trouble.

He owed 53 crowns. How had it come to this? He could easily see how, he just couldn’t believe it.

At first, he had started by borrowing the money and materials from Missus Peyton and the weavery. He was convinced his new shields would sell, and every guardsman would want one. He had made the first few from the strongest woods and the best leather he could buy. They were comfortably priced, enough that he would make a profit even after taxes. He could always have done menial work like new weavers usually did… making wheels and tables and clothing, but he was so much more skilled than they were. He would show everyone how great his shields were.

He made six. They didn’t sell.

He had also made a rudder after Book had told him that a ship would be coming into port with a broken one. It had sold, and given him a quick profit of 6 crowns. Nayt shook his head, thinking back to that stupid stupid evening. He was so impressed with himself that he bought a full lamb dinner for his mother and took Jayna and Peder out for drinks, paying for a few rounds at the bar as well. He had given Jayna a present then: a new gown and set of hair bows from a trading ship that had stopped by the river. Total cost: 9 crowns.

Nayt had decided that he was spending too much time cutting leather for the shields and had bought his first kris-tooth then. They were small, remarkable blades that could cut through almost anything. At only an inch long, you couldn’t use them as a weapon. But the teeth from the kris-shark was very valuable and very useful in crafting.

It was only after three more shields later that Nayt realized he was in trouble. None of his shields had sold, and he had made the mistake of complaining about it at the Inn. Master Kvothe pulled him aside and told him what the problem was. Most townspeople thought such things were cursed. The Sabaa had made it clear that new inventions, especially from the weavery that Dom worked in were off limits. No one was willing to risk their displeasure.

Nayt hadn’t listened. Thinking back, he wanted to kick his earlier self. Nayt picked up a rock and through it into the river, right through the graphic showing the red downward line of his finances. Why had he been so stupid and stubborn? He made 20 shields in total, just in case the guards had been waiting to purchase until there was one for every guard in town. They hadn’t. Now they were just sitting in a giant pile in the back of the weavery, taking up space.

When Nayt had finally finished the shields, Missus Peyton, his real mother, had cut him off. No more supplies, no more lending until he could pay back what he borrowed. And, she would be charging him storage fee if he didn’t get those shields out of her workspace.

Nayt had been so ashamed that he had left the weavery early and just sat in the Old Tower looking through old books in his magic vision. There were so many books and movies, millions and millions in hundreds of languages. There was more than anyone could read in a lifetime on any subject he asked about. It was almost totally useless as he understood almost nothing. There was no use asking about the best ways of making two pieces of wood stick together, as the stupid magical vision would suggest something stupid like a screw made of metal. If he was rich enough to waste so much metal by making it into a screw, why would he ever need to sell something made out of wood? It made no sense.

It was later that night that Nayt realized he had lost his kris-tooth. He looked everywhere for it, and finally figured out how to rewind the vision in town until he watched himself leaving the weavery. He thought someone might have stolen it but saw on the recording that he had just absently brushed it off the table with a large pile of leather scraps. It went into a trash bin which was later dumped into the river. Gone. He kicked himself, but later borrowed money from Jayna to buy a new one. This one he kept tied to his wrist so he would never lose it.

His next inventions also didn’t sell. He had spent the last two weeks trying to build a new type of window, one that could open and also use a flap of woven reeds to keep out bugs while letting in air. After three tries, he finally perfected the design so that it opened smoothly and quietly. They cost him 5 crows each in materials, which he had borrowed from everyone he could.

No one would buy those either. The Sabaa apparently also thought better windows to be demon work. Nayt was in such trouble. Yesterday, Master Peyton had told him that he would have to repay his loans soon or he would be asked to leave the guild. His own father.

Later that night, Sabaa Takkai had stopped by and basically ordered him to stop causing trouble. Nayt nodded and just ran home to crawl into bed for a fitful night of sleep.

Nayt took a deep breath. What could he do? Bad dreams plagues him all night. Should he run away? Run to the Iron North where there are no Sabaa to scare the townsfolk? Running away just seemed… dishonorable. He had asked Salazaar for a loan, but his brother had pointed out that it would raise suspicions for him to suddenly have large amounts of money.

He needed a new plan. Needed some way of making back the money he owed. He hung his head in shame. The only thing he could think of was to slowly work it off by doing menial chores. Fixing wheels, repairing roofs, mending fences and walls. Menial tasks, the kind usually done by apprentices. If he worked every hour of every day, he could earn back the money in about a year. Humiliating, but what choice might he have? 

His father had always said that real men faced their mistakes. Though running away sure seemed like the easier option. But he just couldn’t face all the disappointment that would cause.

He might as well start now. He needed wood, and couldn’t afford to buy the pre-cut, pre-sanded wood from the weavery. He would have to go cut down some trees on his own. Nayt had his pack which had a thick hardwood axe in it and would be good for cutting off long poles for the spokes of wheels.

Nayt hiked out to the East, trudging through town with his shoulders slumped. It was a dusty, sweaty day to go walking. All three suns were out, and there were no clouds to protect him from the heat.

Nayt walked past the Stables, and through Master Peyton’s large Erdgrove. It was an acre of Erdgrove trees that the Master grew to have a stable, well-tended set of woods. It would be much easier to cut down a few branches from one of these trees than to keep going deeper into the forest, but Nayt already felt like he owed the Peytons enough. He didn’t want to steal from their trees as well. He checked his map and zoomed around until he spotted some other good trees farther along the trail.

As he walked he saw various small animals like Nupberds and rabbits scampering about the brush. He smiled. Everything would be ok.

He followed the road for another half hour, then stopped when he saw the grove of hickory trees. Hickory made the best wheels, though the struts needed to be kiln-dried first. Maybe the Master would still let him use the kiln? He wasn’t banned form the Weavery, was he? He would have to try.

Nayt sat on a log, opening his shirt and taking a long swig of water from his leather skin, thinking of where to start cutting, and how to carry all the staves of wood back to town. He had a few bundles of rope that he could use, and possibly tie them from his back. He could always use the kris-tooth knife on his wrist to cut the rope to smaller sections if he needed to.

Nayt pulled up his map, and was surprised to find that he had walked two miles out of town. He might just be farther out from town than ever been before, not counting that one time with Salazaar. He was also surprised to see a red star walking along the road in his direction but pretty close by. 

A Sabaa! Following him? He hadn’t seen anyone there when he checked ten minutes ago.

Nayt’s pulse quickened. Did they know? Did they suspect he had powers as well? He wanted to run but knew any sudden movements would look guilty. And they were sure to have seen him already. Why hadn’t he kept his map up the entire time? He mentally kicked himself for getting lazy.

He should at least look busy. He stood and took out the axe. Picking a likely looking hickory Erdgrove tree, he began chopping off branches and clearing off bark. He had done similar work many years ago when he started his apprenticeship and quickly got into the rhythm of stripping the tree. Out of the corner of his eye, he followed the red star that was approaching him. 30 yards away, 20 yards, 10. He really should find some way to have a warning appear when a Sabaa was close

He didn’t move when the map disappeared from his sight. That meant that the Sabaa was within 5 paces. Nayt wanted to turn and look, to see who had been approaching but wanted to give no sign of his powers. He just kept chopping the branches.

A silky voice called, “Hoi there, young Naytan.”

Nayt paused, dramatically acting as if he wasn’t sure whether he heard something. He turned and might have overacted his part a bit when he jumped backwards in mock surprise. He relaxed when he saw that it was Sitta Aimee. He sucked in his gut at the sight of her, then flushed in embarrassment. She was so beautiful.

“Oh, um, hoi. Ma’am.”

She had always made him so nervous. She was tall with luxuriant black hair. He still remembered when she had first arrived in town a few years ago, a brand new Sitta on her first assignment. Peder had nicknamed her the Panther when he first saw her, and immediately had fallen deeply in love with her. Like every other boy in town. She had an exotic brown face and unturned almond eyes and spoke with a trace of an accent. The fact that she was a priestess made her even more untouchable and desirable. Nayt thought guiltily of Jayna.

“How have things been? It’s been a while since you graduated. Everything going good?” She said it with a distracted tone, frequently glancing backwards over her shoulder.

Nayt knew full well that when she looked at him she would see how much money he had and everything he had been doing floating in bubbles above his head. Everyone with the magic sight could see this kind of information. She must know how poor he had become and this made him blush further. Why was she torturing him?

He forced a smile. “I decided to start making wheels and need to cut some wood. “ Stammering, he added, “Simple wheels, nothing fancy.”

“I see you are working hard. Good for you. The head Saba will be happy to hear that.” She pronounced the w like a v “verking.” It was so cute and caused Nayt to blush once again. She again looked over her shoulder.

Nayt just nodded, trying not to stare. Her long black hair was artfully tied in a pony-tail and flowed down her back to the level of her knees. He looked away back to his tree. Hopefully she wouldn’t want to talk long. Was he being rude? Maybe he should try to appear less nervous. She saved him the trouble.

Sitta Aimee wasn’t smiling. She looked nervous. Had he said something wrong?

She waved timidly, then started walking back towards town. “Good to see you. Blessings upon your work.”

He turned and waved back, not making eye contact. “Bye, Sitta. Thank you.”

He concentrated on cutting off another large straight branch, waiting for his map to reappear when she passed far enough away. It didn’t. He kept waiting, but his display still did not come back up.

Was she standing behind him? She must be within a few meters if the map was still gone. 

A cold sweat broke out upon his brow. Had she caught him somehow? Had he given his magic away?

Thinking fast, he decided to drop his axe, making it look like an accident. He stepped to the side of the tree to pick it up, letting him turn around to see behind him. No one. Just the small shrinking figure of Sitaa Aimee walking down the path towards town off in the distance.

Nothing. There was no one there. But, his magic still didn’t return. No screens, no movies, no map. What was going on?