Nayt kept working, thinking that maybe Salazaar's spell had messed up. It had never gone wrong before. Why now?

He thought furiously. Could another Sabaa be standing nearby? Could someone have snuck up behind him somehow?

He kept working, armpits damp with fright and exertion. It was so hot here in the forest, with the stale humid air of summer. He wished for a breeze. He kept feeling that someone was watching him. He glanced around, but saw nothing. It made no sense.

Sighing, Nayt turned and walked over to the log he had previously sat on. He pulled out his water flask and took a deep drink. He was looking back down the path and saw a small whirlwind of leaves moving towards him. Finally, a breeze!

Nayt sighed, waiting for the cool to wash over his body. He closed his eyes, waiting for the relief. Nothing. He opened his eyes again.

The leaves whirled right up towards him, but he felt nothing from the breeze. They were whirling in twirling, right in front of him. His chest and face started itching, tingling.

“That’s weird.” He reached out to touch one of the leaves, thinking he would catch it. His hand also started tingling, almost throbbing with intensity. Then, his hand touched something, something… cloth like. Something solid.

Nayt jerked his hand back, yelping. Something was there. A fist appeared from mid-air, flying straight towards his tingling face. He yelped, then slid off the log to fall onto the pile of branches behind him. Carved hickory staves when sprawling.

A man had appeared, right out of thin air standing above Nayt.

The man had a deep gravelly voice. “I forgot that you all have that danger-sense program running. Well, no matter.”

Nayt stared at the man, then realized he was a threat and scrambled backwards over the wood poles.

The man stepped forward and reached out to grab Nayt by the hair. Nayt cried out at the pain.

Nayt was dragged back to the tree. His tree. The hickory that he had been stripping branches off of! He started struggling, but the man just punched him twice in the stomach. Hard. Nayt wheezed and collapsed in a fit of coughing and retching.

For the second time in months, Nayt was tied to a tree. This time, however, the bonds were very tight. His hands were knotted together so hard that he couldn’t feel his fingers. His legs very also tied around the tree. Lastly, the man ripped off a piece of Nayt’s shirt then stuck it in his mouth and tied it around his head with the last of the rope. Nayt could move, couldn’t scream.

The man was broad-chested, though short. His face was dirty, with greasy black hair and a few missing teeth. He had scars on his cheeks, and was wearing some green and brown patterned clothing that looked like forest leaves. He looked ugly and mean, and treated Nayt efficiently with absolutely no compassion. 

Every inch of Nayt’s exposed skin burned from the rope burns. He couldn’t see from the tears in his eyes.

“Now, it’s time to get me that Sitta witch. You wait right here, boy. If you’re lucky, I’ll be able to drag her back far enough so you can sees what I does with her. I need someone to go tell yer town that us Northmen are coming. Someone to tell them the tale of what will happen to all your murderous priests. Sees, ‘cause we knows how to take away their magic now.”

The man strolled off, picking up Nayt’s axe as he went. Nayt blinked away the tears and watched the man disappear right in front of his eyes. He had reached down and touched something on his wrist, then just… turned into a pile of leaves to blow down the road.

Nayt sobbed but soon stopped when the movement cut into his cheeks. He had to get word out. Had to alert someone. Maybe when the invisible man got far enough away, Nayt’s magic would come back and he could call Peder for help. Or Salazaar, or even Saba Eetho if he had to. He couldn’t let that evil man kill Sitta Aimee, could he? He would rather turn himself in first and confess to using magic.

But, his magic didn’t come back. Nothing. The invisible man had something that blocked the magic, that shut it down. Nayt waited a minute, then five. After ten minutes, the tears had returned.

He struggled at the ropes then gasped in pain. Nayt had cut his right wrist on something and could see blood pooling down his pant leg. His kris-tooth knife! Of course.

It took a few minutes of painful struggling but he finally was able to get the rope to cut over the knife that was strapped to his wrist. From there, it took only second to cut the ropes off and fall panting at the base of the tree. His arms were raw and bloody and he could barely stand. His legs had fallen asleep and it felt like they had pins and needles in them.

No time for that now. He could hurt later. Nayt looked around and saw that the invisible man had kicked over Nayt’s pack spilling the contents. And taken his axe. No weapons.

He picked up one of the carved branches of wood, and broke it in half over the log. He grabbed one side, hefting it. About two feet long, like one of the bats that he had seen people in the movies using when they played baze ball. It would have to do. He was going to go baze that invisible man right in the head.

Nayt ran down the path, initially limping but then gaining speed as his anger surged. He couldn’t believe this guy. He just shows up and attacks him then threatens one of the priestesses of his town? No way. What would Peder have done? Peder would find the guy and stab him a couple hundred times. It was a good plan.

It only took a minute until Nayt saw the man in the road, standing over the body of Sitta Aimee and pulling her down the dirt road. She was unconscious, and her long black hair was a mess. And she was totally naked. This should have made Nayt blush, but just enraged him even more. He picked up speed, charging right at the man in the green clothes.

Nayt must have made a sound. He was probably crying or screaming at that time, he wasn’t sure. He charged into the man, swinging at him with all of his strength. The branch crashed into the man’s back, snapping in Nayt’s hands with a jarring crunch. Nayt’s body continued moving forward, tacking into the guy and taking them both down in a pile of arms and legs a few yards from the naked woman.

Nayt was crying, screaming, punching. He stabbed out with the wooden brach, poking the guy a few times but poking the ground even more. The man finally was able to sit up, and landed a few punches into Nayt’s chest and face. Nayt felt a tingling right before the man hit, which gave him enough warning to dodge the full force of the blows.

Nayt’s eye swelled in pain and he felt like he was suddenly underwater. A ringing sound popped into his ear and everything suddenly became slow and blurry. He was pushed down in the dirt. Nayt rolled over, looking up to see the evil man right above him. The thick man had picked up Nayt’s branch, which was now bloody and covered with smelly gore. He was about to stab Nayt with it. He smiled sickly, showing Nayt the dirty mouth full of broken teeth.

Unfortunately for the man, he didn’t see the naked form of Sitta Aimee standing behind him, holding a large rock. Nayt did, and couldn’t help but stare at her. She brought it down on the man’s thick skull, and he dropped like a sack of potatoes.

Nayt just stared. He had never seen a woman before, not like this. She was the most beautiful creature he could imagine.

Nayt turned his head to the side, threw up, then passed out.